The biggest drawback of this scheme is that this subsidy is not linked up with the inflation rate.
Delhi is an urban territory.
There banks are in abundance and most of the people also have bank accounts.
The same thing can also be said about aadhar card.
But various complaints are coming up in other territories of the country.
The most important thing is that the needy will only get the money if their fingerprint matches the database of UIDAI.
Now , let us look at the ground reality.
The reality of Kotkasim tehsil of Alwar district is before us.
In the four districts of Jharkhand also - Ranchi , Ramgarh , Hazaribagh and Saraikela-kharsava pilot project was started since last December.
In Ramgarh , the laborers of MANREGA were supposed to get the wages on the basis of Adhar card.
There are one lakh , seventy four thousand MANREGA labors but even after a year only five thousand labors have been successfully linked with aadhar card.
Despite this if the central government is in a haste to come up with the cash subsidy scheme , this means that it wants to take the benefit of elections.
If it thinks that it can again come into power because of MANREGA , then why cant the direct investment scheme make the trio of UPA.
Congress is busy in playing the tactics so that the BJP ruled states should not take its advantage.
Actually during the MANREGA scheme , the chief ministers of the BJP ruled states put up their pictures in the MANREGA posters.
Despite the efforts of the congress , in a haste the cash subsidy scheme will definitely be a wastage.
The 65 rupees increase in the minimum support price of wheat by the central government is said to be futile by the farmer organizations.
The organizations say that with this it will be difficult for the farmers to get the disbursement on produce , consequently they will have to face heavy loss.
Seeing the bumper stock the government has agreed to export 25 lakh tonnes of wheat.
If the MSP is not increased then in the coming years the farmers might reduce the produce of wheat.
V. M Singh the convener of National farm laborers organization said that the government has mocked at the farmers by 65 rupees increase in the MSP of wheat.
The farmers will not even get back their disbursement at these rates.
Sudheer Pawar of farmer awareness forum says that there will be an increase of at least 100 rupees per quintal but with an increase of just 65 rupees they have cheated the farmers.
In the horticulture and forestry college near Jhalrapatan on Thursday the annual seminar on all India coordinated research project of dry regions began.
It is being jointly organized by the college and Central dry horticulture institution of Bikaner.
In the seminar there will be talks primarily on the research of fruits.
On the first day of the conference six research papers were presented in the first three sessions.
According to the President Pranab Mukherjee , the development of farming and the concerned areas are the basis of all round progress of the country.
He expects to achieve the target of 4 percent increase in the development in the 12th plan in farming sector.
Mukherjee was speaking here after felicitating the cereal producing states for their fabulous performance.
Amongst the states receiving the award for the best farming , Madhya Pradesh got the first prize for stunning performance in cereal production.
Bihar got the first prize for its fabulous achievement in the yield and production of paddy.
Haryana got the " Krishi Karman " prize for the fabulous performance in the yield and production of wheat.
After the discrepancies within the government regarding the minimum support price -LRB- MSP -RRB- of wheat , finally it was declared on Wednesday.
The support price for the current Rabi season will be 1350 rupees which is 65 rupees more than the previous year.
In the CCEA meeting , Food ministry's proposal of the export of extra 25 lakh tonnes wheat has been approved.
This has been approved looking at the huge stock of wheat.
Even before this the export of 20 lakh tonnes of wheat was approved.
Actually , the finance and food ministry was not in support of increasing the support price of wheat.
While the food ministry is anxious for storage , the finance ministry is anxious for the increase in food subsidy.
For the year 2013 the Central government might increase the minimum support price of wheat upto 100 rupees.
Last year the MSP of wheat was set to be 1,285 rupees , which can have an increase of 100 rupees this year.
Decision can also be taken on the export of extra 25 lakh tonnes of wheat in the cabinet.
There has been discrepancies within the government regarding the minimum support price of wheat.
Amongst all the wheat producing states sowing is vigorous these days but the farmers are in dilemma as the support price has not been announced.
More than half the wheat has been sown in Uttar Pradesh and Punjab.
The rate of wheat in the world market is good now while the government godowns have stocked more wheat than the requirement.
It is expected that the export of domestic fruits will cross the level of four hundred crores in the current financial year.
The exporters say that there can be feeble increase in quantifiable export while the business is expected to be quite good in terms of price.
Till 2006-07 the export of Indian flowers in the World market remained best.
This year flowers worth around 653 crore rupees were exported.
While the next year the export was reduced to 340 crore rupees.
Since then till the last financial year the export is not stable.
The export in the last financial year was 365 crore rupees.
Naqwi says that there are possibilities of flower export at the world level.
The government is thinking of increasing the export tax on raw sugar.
This can be decided in a few weeks.
The government will soon take decisions in the recommendation of the control free sugar industry of C. Rangarajan Committee.
The government will step ahead in phases in the direction of making the sugar industry control free.
On the demand for increasing the export tax on industrial world , he said that talks are going on with the finance ministry and very soon decision will be taken on the issue.
For the increasing production of sugar in the country he considers the contribution of cooperative sugar industries to be significant.
Not consuming the hereditary amended food products will depend on the wish of the consumer.
It will be essential for the GM food producing companies to give information regarding the GM food on the packets.
Last year the government had made law regarding this.
One of the senior officer of the ministry of consumer affairs said that in the new standard packing law it has become necessary to give the detailed information of a food packet.
It includes the weight , price , packing date and the expiry date of the product.
There are new provisions of packing -LRB- weight -RRB- in the law.
It has been enforced from 1st November , 2012.
Alongside , the government made it mandatory to write GM on GM food packs which has been enforced from 1st January , 2013.
With this the the companies have to write GM with bold letters on GM packs.
Because there are no constraints in the selling of GM food products in foreign.
Therefore many of the exported products from there are GM.
The finest variety of pomegranate -LRB- Bhagwa -RRB- which is demanded even in foreign.
After their initiative the farmers of Siwana and sindhari region have also planted gardens in their farms and at 172 hectares of land today pomegranate fruits are laden in the garden.
When the local peasants who were on Gujarat visit by the agriculture department saw and knew the about the production of pomegranate there , they also thought about it.
Alongside adopted the water droplet irrigation technique with the government subsidy with which the water loss is nominal.
Guava is such a fruit which is nutritional elements in abundance , despite this it is cheaper and easily available.
According to the accredited report of National Institute of nutrition , Hyderabad , the level of antioxidants in guava is much more as compared to other fruits.
If you thought that oranges is full of vitamin c then you will be amazed to know that guava contains 5 times more vitamin c as compared to oranges.
It has been strengthening our immunity system to fight against long diseases.
Regular consumption of guava with seeds cures constipation.
It strengthens digestive system if it is consumed with black salt.
' A plant worth fifty thousand rupees' , I was surprised for sometime after hearing it.
Agricultural experts said that it is a ' bonsai ' plant.
Though it is small to see at but wonderful.
The price of the plant is as much as is its age.
This bonsai plant has become the major attraction of the flower show -LRB- nursery and landscape expo 2012 -RRB- started at the Indian agricultural research institute.
More than 100 varieties of colorful indigenous and overseas flowers have been kept in the flower expo.
People were seen to be keen towards bonsai and gardening learning methods.
A plant named folius beauty is green throughout the year.
That is why it is called evergreen.
Apart from this even if we don't give water to the desert roses , they do not dry.
Dr. J.P.S Dabas of the senior scientist of the Indian agricultural research institution said that Bonsai is a Japanese art which means dwarf plant.
It began from Japan.
Bonsai plants are planted in pot , whose branches and roots are regularly trimmed.
People fondly plant Bonsai in their homes and offices.
Dr. Praveen Khare told about the measures to save the cattle from diseases.
The cold and dry temperate climate of Lahaul-spiti is considered favorable for apple production because of its disease free atmosphere and geographical location.
Therefore the farmers of Lahaul-spiti are continuously getting attracted towards gardening.
The farmers and gardeners of the low regions of Patan valley had started sowing apple plants from 1980.
Fruits and vegetables bloom during winter.
So many colorful fruits and a lot of green vegetables.
Apart from vitamin C , vitamin B complex , iron , phosphorus Sweet potato is rich in Beta carotene.
Sweet potato keeps the body warm and the consumption of Vitamin C present in it relieves from bronchitis and lung problems.
It is rich in fiber therefore apart from satisfying hunger it is also good for digestive system.
Starch , vitamins , minerals and protein are in abundance in sweet potato and it provides energy to the body.
Sweet potato also has potassium in adequate amount.
Potassium plays a significant role in reducing blood pressure.
The Central government has announced to increase the minimum support price of wheat for the current Rabi season from 65 rupees to 1350 rupees.
Seeing the bumper stock the export of 25 lakh tonnes of wheat has been approved.
Citing the tremendous increase in the input coast the farmers had demanded for at least 200 rupees increase in the MSP of wheat.
Against the assurance of Pawar the government has cheated the farmers by merely an increase of 65 rupees in the MSP of wheat.
The agricultural scientists who have successfully decoded the genome of pigeon pea have now become successful in decoding the genomes of other significant gram pulses.
With this it will be easier to make chick peas safe from insects.
The Indian agricultural research council has started preparing disease free , high yielding hereditary amended -LRB- GM -RRB- seeds of pigeon and chick peas.
Last year only the scientists had decoded the genome of chick peas.
The BT chick peas of pulses will be developed through domestic resources.
The state agricultural minister Dr. Charan Das said that for achieving the self dependence of pulses the genome seeds of pulses will be developed.
The extremely advanced Pusa Basmati by the agricultural scientists have become the source of happiness for 1509 farmers.
This variety with limited use of pesticide and high yield in less time is the most advanced variety of available Basmati at domestic and world level.
Because of its taste , flavor and best shape , Pusa basmati 1509 has become the first choice domestic and world purchasers.
The farmers are also getting rich by doing the farming of Pusa 1509 instead of traditional Basmati.
Along with getting prepared soon the new variety is capable of giving more yield.
According to Prabhu the most new varieties require less use of pesticides.
Because of the imported cheap sugar the prices are coming down quickly.
With this the heart beat of sugar industry has increased.
But the bewildered government has completely refused to do anything in this direction because of the inflation.
The finance minister expressing his angst on the rampant inflation said that currently sugar is not a special issue.
The government is ready to raise every possible step to reduce the prices.
The sugar industry organizations are shocked at this statement of Chidambaram , the finance minister.
At present there is 10 % tax on the sugar import.
While , the price of sugar has come down to 500 $  tonne in the world market.
Looking at the adequate production in Brazil more falloff of sugar prices are expected.
A total of 8 lakh tonnes of sugar has been imported till last week.
The price of sugar in Pakistan is also 5-6 rupees less as compared to India.
After this it will announce its decision regarding ban on import or export enforcing control.
This year the sugar industry has quite a lot tasted the sweetness.
There has been a steep increase in the production of this industry worth 80 thousand crore rupees.
The industry has exported sugar in large quantities.
Five crore sugarcane farmers are dependent on sugar industry.
During the last session the production of sugar production was 2.63 crore tonnes.
The second largest sugar producing country of the world , India has also exported 34 lakh tonnes sugar this year.
The beginning of 2012 brought hopes for this industry.
In January , the Prime minister elected an expert committee in the chairmanship of C Rangarajan to make sugar control free.
The committee has given affirmative recommendations to the sugar industry in October.
It includes control release system and removing debts from levy sugar.
Food minister K. V. Thomas has assured the representatives of the industry to enforce the recommendations of Rangarajan.
Agriculture minister Sharad Pawar has already supported this.
For the benefit of the industry the government had handed over the price of the ethanol to the market in November.
The farmers also got the benefits of high prices of sugar.
During this time they were paid more than 50 thousand crore rupees by the mills.
The tetchiness of monsoon during the Kharif season has affected crops.
Because of this not only the productivity of grains but their yield is also feared to be affected.
But the thing to be relieved is that it can be recompensed to quite an extent with Rabi crops.
The ministry says that in order to recompense extra land and high quality seeds are being used for Rabi crops.
The production of cotton is also expected to reduce by 18 lakh bunches.
The government has expressed its expectation that the deterioration in grain production can be compensated with Rabi crops.
In the kharif season the government has done the MSP of 15.7 % in the MSP of paddy , 28.6 % in cotton , 10-13 % in mung bean and black gram , 37 % in groundnut , more than 33.3 % in soyabean.
For this the purchase of Indian food corporation has also been increased.
Extra godowns have been arranged for grain storage.
The path of new area named descent of agriculture and developmental research has commended.
Humans did the early attempts of controlling and affecting vegetation.
Before this they get food in some amount from plants and trees directly.
Early man received some amount of food from wild animals and birds.
They started farming cleaning the forests.
They debut of tree plantation and making the wild animals their pets near the surroundings began before 800 BC.
The relationship between primary agriculture and herbage situation is contentious.
One opinion in this regard is that new grain producing economy is spread in different with directions with the infancy of mixed farming.
This infancy state was situated in fertile crescent.
One of the economy amongst this was found in the step territory of Eurasia.
There that already turned into cattle grazing and nomadic economy.
The factors of environment gave a significant contribution mechanism.
Thus they gave birth to mixed farming here.
This procedure is running since roman tradition that descent and development of farming happened in this sequence.
Firstly , hunting of wild animals , secondly accumulating wild fruits and edible -LRB- products and thirdly cattle grazing.
But now it is rarely accepted.
Another similar opinion is that farming has evolved in such big valleys where water control was required.
Few years back Babylon and other Russian scientists drove campaign throughout the world between 1916 and 1930 on the basis of which they enlisted the origin of 8 free centers very significant cultivated plants of the world.
China-It is topmost and largest free center which consists of the following hilly terrain of central-western China.
Northern - India has undoubtedly been the birth place of many tropical fruits including sugarcane , rice , many fruits and mango and many lemon-lineage plants.
Middle Asia - It includes north western Afghanistan , India , Tajikistan , western Uzbekistan , t yen-shan.
Remote east - Amongst the 83 enlisted species here were 9 vegetal species of wheat and mustard , grapes , fig , pear , cherry , almonds , walnut and alfalfa.
Mediterranean center - is the home of oat , olive and many leafy-vegetables.
Ethiopia - This region is very significant because of many varieties of wheat , sorghum , oat,millet-barley.
Southern Mexico middle America - It was the primary center of sweet potato , maize and quality cotton where 49 local species were enlisted.
Southern America - laid emphasis on the significance of high , hilly regions of 1932-33 Russian campaign of Bulgaria , Peru , Ecuador.
In the traction green infancy stage of the old seeds of farming the feudal grain system has tied the farmer or workers to the rich.
The industrial revolution was not only deeply related to the agricultural land revolution but it was dependent on that.
In 1709 BC Abraham dubby was doing the work of casting iron in coal-book dell with the help of coke.
Many kinds of reforms had to be done before casting all kinds of iron.
As the new ways of casting iron were being adopted , the cheap iron of agriculture and other industries started getting available easily.
Steam-power was also easily available.
With this industries and the subsidiary services grew rapidly.
Consequently the demand of the laborers were also fulfilled.
Even if the laborers are called from the remote areas there scarcity will be there.
As a result , more work was done regarding better farming methods.
Thus arrangements for more farms and crofts were made.
Which was a necessary condition for land reform.
The significant characteristic of new farming techniques was specialism.
More and less needs of food and clothing of the farmers were fulfilled with self sufficiency oriented farming.
Now specific crops like wheat are being produced even in low favorable regions from more favorable production area.
Consequently the production of these crops was reduced.
Growing root crops not only helped in maintaining the best practice of fertility but internal crops were achieved but the specialization of agriculture became simple.
After sometime it was considered essential to keep more livestock during winter for supplying manure in the land.
Thus the supply of milk could be made possible from the inappropriate regions of farming.
For achieving milk and fat cattle finishing was done in the favorable fertility of local climatic transportation and soil conditions.
Litchi - Litchi is a tasty fruit.
Its origin is considered to be China.
It also has the highest production in china.
The second position in world is of India.
Its plant was brought to India from Burma in 17th century.
Apart from China and India it is also grown in Vietnam , Thailand , Philippines , South Africa , Taiwan , Australia , New Zealand , Queensland and southern Florida & Hawaii , USA -LRB- Hawaii Islands -RRB-.
98 % of Litchi in India is grown in the districts of Muzaffarpur and Darbhanga in Bihar.
apart from this Litchi is grown in Dehradun of Uttaranchal , Punjab , Nainital -LRB- Gurdaspur -RRB- ; West Bengal -LRB- Hugli -RRB- and South India -LRB- lower hills of Nilgiri -RRB-.
There is excess of sucrose in Litchi.
It is used as a fresh fruit.
It is used after drying in China.
Apart from this marmalade , pickle , alcohol and squash is made from this.
Pomegranate - Among the other largest producing countries of the World are spain , Egypt , Morocco , Iran , Arab and Afghanistan.
Apart from this its gardening is also seen in Myanmar , Japan , China and California -LRB- USA -RRB-.
The gardening of Pomegranate is spread on around 1200 hectare land.
In Maharashtra its gardening is done on almost 800 hectares land.
Others states include Uttar Pradesh , Gujrat , Karnataka , Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu.
Warm environment is essential to grow sweet and tasty fruits of Pomegranate.
During the growth and ripening of fruits around 400 c temperature is appropriate.
Its juice is very tasty and energizing.
Jelly is also made from this.
Plum - Plum is a major fruit among the ancient fruits of India.
It is mentioned in the ancient writings.
Its origin is considered to be from India , Malaysia to south western China.
Among the plum producing countries , china is prominent.
The area under this fruit includes 12,000 hectares.
It is mostly found in Madhya Pradesh.
Other states include Haryana , Punjab , Bihar , Uttar Pradesh , Rajasthan , West Bengal , Gujrat , Andhra Pradesh , Assam , Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu.
The small and sour fruits of plum are dried and powdered.
These fruits are also consumed after drying and soaking.
Apart from the fresh fruits of plum , marmalade , candy , squash and sauce are also made.
Plum wood is used as fuel and for making furniture.
Fig - Its birth place is said to be Arab.
In the Mediterranean countries such as Italy , Turkey , Portugal and Algeria its farming is done in an elaborated way.
In India its farming is primarily done in Pune in Maharashtra , Shrirangpattanam in Karnataka , Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh and some parts of Gujarat.
The farming is emphasized on the outskirts of cities.
The fruit perishes soon.
Jam , syrup , Jelly etc are prepared from its fruit.
Emblica - From the commercial point of view it is cultivated in Uttar Pradesh , India.
Pratapgarh , Varanasi , Azamgarh , sultanpur , sitapur , Raibareli , bareli and nainital districts Uttar Pradesh and Uttaranchal are remarkable.
It is a very old fruit of India.
It is rich in ancient literature.
It is adequately mentioned in the compositions of Ramayana , Charak Samhita and Kalidas susrut Samhita.
It is also significant from religious point of view therefore we get one or two trees in every garden.
Various parts of the tree contain different kinds of medicinal values.
The amount of vitamin ' c ' in the fruits are relatively high.
Therefore various kinds of nutritive and medicinal things are prepared from these fruits.
It also contains pectin in large amounts.
The fruit of Emblica is very useful.
This is beneficial for many diseases such as diarrhea , jaundice -LRB- blood deficiency -RRB- , disapsia and cuffs etc.
This medicine is very effective for eye and stomach problems.
Wood apple - The medicinal values of wood apple have been described in Charak Samhita.
In India wood apple is grown from Himalaya to Kanyakumari.
Apart from this it is also grown in Srilanka , Bangladesh , Burma , Thailand and many other countries of south east Asia.
The fruit of wood apple is healthy and famous for medicinal values.
It has medicinal values because of mormosolin elements.
Apart from being a fresh fruit it useful in other ways also.
Food items like marmalade , toffee , squash , jam , nectar , jelly and juice and syrup are made from fruit.
Wood apple is a multipurpose fruit.
Therefore it is used in many Ayurvedic medicines.
Avocado - The origin of this fruit is Mexico of North american continent.
From the commercial point of view it is cultivated in Mexico.
In India it is cultivated in the foothills of Kallar and Barliyar regions of Bangalore , nandi and Nilgiri and Pune region of western India.
Its fruit does not ripe fully on trees.
It falls off the tree before maturing after which it ripens.
After ripening it becomes soft.
Avocado fruit is consumed fresh.
It is neither sweet nor sour to eat.
Thus it is not liked much in India.
Mulberry - The origin of black mulberry is supposed to be Iran and black mulberry is supposed to be China and Japan.
The origin of red mulberry is supposed to be North America.
While in china mulberry is cultivated for silkworm in India it is cultivated for fruits.
Apart from Japan , China and India it is also grown in Europe and America.
In almost all the regions of India mulberry is grown in large numbers.
It is cultivated in south India , Karnataka and Tamilnadu.
In many regions it is cultivated for silk production.
The fruit of mulberry perishes very soon.
The fruit should be allowed to ripe fully at the tree.
The fruits thus collected are soon sent to the market.
Very tasty jam is prepared from this fruit.
Its juice helps is throat infection and relieves from fever.
Its also helps in purifying blood.
Silkworm eats mulberry leaves with fervor.
Gooseberry-It is used as thorny fence -LRB- protector -RRB- around the garden.
Apart from India it is cultivated in South Africa and Malaysia.
Relatively less mature fruits are used for making curry and sauce.
Gooseberries are used as pickle , jelly , curry , marmalade and syrup.
Colored wine is also made from its fruits.
Dates-Dates were said to be originated in Africa or Arab of Asian continent.
Egypt -LRB- 18.5 % -RRB- , Iraq -LRB- 17 % -RRB- , Iran -LRB- 13 % -RRB- and Saudi Arab -LRB- 12 % -RRB- are among the major date producing countries of the world.
The climate of some areas of India such as Jaisalmer and Sriganganagar of Rajasthan , Kachh in Gujarat , Sirsa , Mahendra garh , Bhiwani in Haryana and Abohar and Firozpur in Punjab are appropriate for its cultivation.
Apart from eating fresh its fruits are utilized in different ways.
Its syrup is used to make jaggery and candy.
Wine is made from the raw fruits and the ripe fruits are dried to make chhuhara -LRB- date -RRB-.
The seeds of date are powdered and fed to camels and goats.
Date is a major plant of tropical desert.
Date trees start yielding fruits from 8-9 years and yields fruits for almost 200 years.
It is a significant nutritive edible element which contains adequate amounts of sucrose and protein.
The prime exporter of dates in the world is Iraq where it is densely cultivated in the valley of Dajla and Farat.
Tamarind - From the scientific name of tamarind -LRB- tamarind Indica -RRB- we know that its major places are India and countries of south west Asia.
Its legumes have a significant place among the recipes of south India.
We can find tamarind trees in the gardens here.
It legumes are used as sauce with food , for bringing a sour taste in vegetables and in the form of medicine etc..
Its seeds , leaves etc are used various medicines.
Blackberry - The origin of blackberry is supposed to be Myanmar , India , Srilanka and Malaysia.
Natural trees of blackberries can also be found in the forests of southern Australia.
It takes around 3.5 months from flowering till the ripening of fruits.
After ripening the color of the fruits turn dark purple , tastes sweet and fragrance becomes good.
Apart from serving the purpose of eating the fruits of blackberry gives cool and freshness.
The soup of seeds are useful for reducing diabetes.
Vinegar is also prepared from the juice of fruits.
Apple - Apple is cultivated in even temperate zonal countries.
This fruit is used as a fresh fruit to eat.
The juice and cider of apple are significant.
France and Britain are major countries that produce cider from apple.
The area of warm temperate fruits in India is very less.
Amongst them , apple occupies the top position from the point of view area.
The commercial production of apple in India is done in Uttar Pradesh , Jammu and Kashmir and hilly parts of Himach.
Jam , marmalade , jelly , cider etc are prepared from the fruit.
The apple of Kashmir is considered to be the best variety amongst them.
Pear-It is the major fruit of warm temperate area.
Its place of origin is supposed to be China , Afghanistan , North-western India , Uzbekistan and eastern part of cocksess mountains.
The area of pear production in china is even more than apple production.
In India pear is grown in the hilly regions of Jammu & Kashmir , Himachal Pradesh -LRB- more than 1200 m high -RRB- and Uttar Pradesh.
Apart from this it is cultivated in the hilly regions of Nilgiri and north east.
For sending the fruits of pear in the remote markets fully mature but hard fruits are plucked from the trees.
Peach - Its place of origin is supposed to be China.
Here peach was grown before 2000 BC.
From China it was brought to middle Asia , Arab and then to brought to Europe and North America by the Spain inhabitants.
Majority of the area under its cultivation are in Nainital and Almora districts of Uttaranchal.
After plucking the fruits they are filled in wooden baskets , which are loaded in trucks and soon sent to the nearby market.
Plum - In Europe the horticulture farming is in progress for 2000 years.
Its major place is supposed to be Cocksess mountain and the area beyond cocksess.
It is cultivated in Myanmar and China.
From here only it was taken to Japan around 1500 AD.
In India Plum is grown in Jammu & Kashmir , Uttar Pradesh , Himachal Pradesh and in the Nilgiri hills of southern India.
Its fruit is used as a sweet dish.
They are eaten after cooking.
The fruits are packed and marmalade is also made.
The pulp is also used in preparing ice-cream batter , candy , bread , jelly , custard , pastry and mutton paste.
Almonds - The origin of almonds is Mediterranean region.
It is also cultivated around the area of Rumsagar.
It is cultivated in Spain , Morocco , Italy , Portugal and Algeria.
Many trees of almonds are found in the Kinnaur and Lahore regions of Himachal Pradesh.
Oil is extracted from the kernel of almond which is also called ' Badam Rogan '.
It is used in many medicines.
Majority of the people also like to eat the kernel of raw almonds which is very healthy.
Strawberry - It was started being cultivated in 15th century.
In the European countries it was brought from Chile.
In Britain , USA and France it is cultivated in an extensive way.
In India it is cultivated in limited areas in hilly regions.
It is such a fruit which is used only fresh else it perishes very soon.
The content of vitamin c in fresh fruits is equivalent to lemon.
Because of excess of iron anemia patients are advised to consume strawberry fruits.
Apricot - Its chief place is western China.
In India its trees are found in the forests of Kinnaur district in Himachal Pradesh.
Its fruits are very tasty to eat.
The nectar of apricot are used or making wine and jam.
In Himachal Pradesh -LRB- India -RRB- , oil is extracted from the kernel of its seed and used for cooking.
Cherry - Its chief place is supposed to be west Asia.
Cherries are both sour and sweet.
Its commercial farming began from 1960.
In India Cherry gardens are found on around 350 hectare area.
The fruits are plucked before they are completely mature.
The fruit of sweet cherries are used for eating fresh.
Marmalade and sauce is prepared from the fruit.
Further , cherry is used to make vegetables.
Raspberry - The various species are European , American , Purple , black Raspberry etc..
European Raspberry is the indigenous plant of Europe.
The hybridization of raspberry was first begun by Dr. Brinic , the scientist of Philadelphia Pennsylvania in 1825.
Rubias novias , a species of Raspberry is found in the Himalayas also.
Mahabaleshwar region is famous for its cultivation.
It is a very useful fruit , its each and every part is useful.
The fruits have a lot of fragrance.
It is mostly used to make various kinds of jam and syrups.
Its fruits are also used to make good wine.
The seeds and roots of raspberry are also very useful.
Roots and stem are infallible stomach medicines.
Walnut-Walnut occupies second position among fruits with kernel.
In India walnut fruits have been found in wild form since long.
Since the last few years walnut cultivation projects are being run by the Indian government.
Its major places are eastern temperate European countries.
The dry fruits of walnut are filled in sacks and stored in moisture free rooms.
They are used in food items , sweets etc..
Persimmon-This fruit is mainly cultivated in Japan and it is considered to be the national fruit there.
Its two species are Chinese and American.
It is called ' maki ' in Japan.
In India it is cultivated in northern hilly regions , Assam in east and in south in the limited areas of Nilgiri hills.
Persimmon fruits are plucked in solid state from the trees after which they are packed and sent to the far-off markets.
Wheat is a major crop of temperate zones whose origin is supposed to be philistine.
There are evidences of thousands years related to its origin.
It is mostly cultivated till 600 latitude in northern hemisphere and till 400 latitude in southern hemisphere.
Today it is also being cultivated in warm tropical plateau and cold tropics.
In every month of the year wheat crop matures in one country or another.
Wheat contains nutritive elements in adequate amounts.
It is an energizing and digestible edible product.
Wheat is a major food in countries with temperate climate.
It has more of protein and less of starch.
It grows in many kinds of climate.
Expenditure is low on this crop.
It is cereal of significance in the world.
50-75 cm rain is good for wheat.
Steepy soil and mold soil is beneficial for this.
Mold soil is most appropriate which has equal proportion of sand and mud.
Lime is necessary for this plant.
Therefore manure of salt-peter and ammonia sulfate is mostly used.
Instruments are also necessary.
Its farming requires less number of labors.
Instruments are also used in its farming at large scale.
Where all the works including sowing-planting to harvesting all are done using machines.
Today high quality seeds and easy transportation facilities are also there.
There should not be any scope for producing more money fetching crops in wheat producing states.
That is why wheat farms are located away from big cities because more currency is gathered from the vegetables near the cities.
Government aids in the form of manures , seeds , irrigation facilities , warehouse safety tax are also economic factors.
It is the major crop of this continent.
Europe is the second wheat producing continent of the world.
Soviet Union - This is the biggest wheat producing nation of the world.
Here both spring and winter season kinds of wheat are grown.
Here the area under spring season wheat is more vivid.
The entire region is situated in the north of 25 cm rainfall.
This wheat is only grown in the irrigated regions of Central Asia.
Here massive farms of collective and cooperative farming have been built.
Yet the use of machines and fertilizers is less as compared to the United States.
Therefore here the per hectare produce is 2,600 kg.
special varieties of wheat are being tested in the country for dry and cold states.
Successful usage of agriculture have been done till 660 northern latitude.
27 % of the worlds wheat is produced in this country.
United states of America and Canada are big producers and exporters of wheat in this continent.
After Europe this continent occupies the place of wheat production.
Here also both winter and spring period of wheat are produced.
Here commercial farming is done and the credit of bringing revolutionary changes in wheat farming goes to this country.
There are wheat producing states in the same country.
Dakota is the biggest producer state.
The total area under wheat production in Missouri and Dakota are 153 hectare and 764 hectare respectively.
It is the biggest exporting country of wheat.
Canada occupies fifth position in world's wheat producing countries.
wheat is grown in the black soil region of Prairie.
The farming here is more extensive as compared to United states of America.
Therefore average yield per hectare is less.
This continent occupies first position in the world in terms of wheat production.
Its major producing countries are China , India , Turkey and Pakistan.
Iran and Japan are also good producers of wheat.
China - China is world's third largest and Asia's biggest wheat producing country.
The per hectare average production of wheat here is 1,500 kg.
As a consequence of high population wheat is exported here from Canada and United States of America.
India - India occupies fourth position in the world and second position in Asia among the wheat producing countries.
Here winter seasoned wheat is grown.
The per hectare average produce here is 1,500 kg.
Turkey - It is the third largest wheat producing country of the Asian continent and sixth largest wheat producing country of the world.
Wheat is produced in 32 % of the agricultural land.
This country is an exporter of wheat.
The decline of export is obvious.
Pakistan - Pakistan occupies fourth position among the wheat producing countries of Asia.
Wheat is cultivated in the valleys of Sindh river and its tributaries.
This part is irrigated through canals.
Australia - Wheat is being cultivated in the 25 % arable land.
There are big wheat farms here where there is more use of machines.
66 % of the arable land of the state and 34 % of the arable land of the country is wheat region.
Argentina - The per hectare average produce here is 1,350 kg.
The wheat of Argentina is spongy.
Therefore it can be kept into the warehouses for a long time which increases commercial price.
Wheat only is the perineum of the economy of the country.
The second largest exporting country of wheat in the world is Argentina.
The place of origin of rice are delta regions and river-valleys of south eastern Asia from where it spread to China , India and later to other countries.
Its farming is very easy.
It doesn't require major instruments.
Every part of the plant is useful.
It is the major food of tropical monsoon climate.
There are 700 varieties of paddy among which 100 are major.
For 63-75 days the water should be 15 cm above the plants in rice field.
Rice is grown in low rainfall regions through irrigation.
Plainly rice is cultivated on plain land and hilly rice is cultivated on hilly slopes.
It contains all the elements of food in adequate amounts.
It has less of protein and more of starch.
It is an American plant.
It was brought to Europe by Columbus.
Later it was cultivated in Asian countries.
There are various varieties.
Currently hybrid varieties have been researched that are cultivated more.
The highest produced food product in the world is corn.
It is used in both human and animal food.
It is the food of ordinary people that is why it occupies third position among the cereals.
Starch , glucose and alcohol is prepared from it.
Cardboard , paper and rayon is made from its stems.
Various food items are made from corn in the United States.
It is a plant of tropical and subtropical land.
It requires high temperature and good humidity.
The growth of most of the plant occurs at night.
Light rain shower is advantageous while growth.
The appropriate annual average rainfall is 50 cm.
Relatively low humidity and open sun light is required during ripening.
Rainwater harms the crop if stays in the field.
Nitrogen and bacteria borne loam soil is suitable for corn.
The cumulative moisture capacity of soil is significant.
The production area of corn is dependent on local demands.
The per hectare average production of the world is 2,080 kg.
United States of America - Corn is grown in a comprehensive region which densely expands from Saint Louis to the borders of Canada and from Nebraska to Ohio.
Iowa is the first and Illinois are second biggest producing states.
Because of the progress of animal husbandry the corn farming has got encouragement.
This country grows 44.5 % corn of the world.
80 % of the produce is fed to animals , 10 % is used in creating starch , glucose and the rest is exported.
Because of scientific farming the per hectare average production is 5,300 kg.
The producers of Illinois Iowa are the basis of flesh plants of Chicago.
The farmers of Ohio supply corn to the factories of sinacity and the farmers of Missouri supply corn to the factories of Saint Louis.
This country is the biggest exporter of corn.
The corn areas are away from seashore because of which the transportation cost is more.
Further here corn is exported through ships.
The biggest purchaser is India.
China - It is used for human and animal food.
Pigs are made fat with this.
The per hectare average produce here is 2,500 kg.
Brazil - It is the third largest corn producing countries of the world.
It is grown from north-east to south of the country.
It is the special food of pigs.
Its per hectare average production is 1,300 kg.
Soviet Union - It is the fifth biggest corn producing country of the world.
It is cultivated in Ukraine , Uzbekistan , Armenia and cocksess.
12 % pigs of the world are raised in this country which is equals the number of United states of America.
Majority of the corn is grown to feed pigs.
Romania - The major producing region is Balachia field.
Corn cultivation is being extended here.
It is the biggest corn producing country of Europe.
Yugoslavia - Corn is grown in the entire country.
In the western region of deep soil the production is more.
South African republic - corn is the main food of the inhabitants here.
It is fed to the pet animals and is known as milize.
The per hectare average production here is 1,000 kg.
This is the sixth largest corn producing country of the world.
It is a corn exporter country.
The major purchasers of corn are Italy , Britain and western Germany.
Mexico - This country is the seventh biggest corn producing country of the world.
Corn is grown everywhere in the country , corn is grown on 66 % of the arable land.
Nowhere in the country , corn has this much significance.
India-It is world's eleventh and second biggest corn producing country in Asia after China.
It is mostly grown in Uttar Pradesh , Punjab and Haryana.
Because of the publicity of irrigation , fertilizers and high quality seeds the production of corn is increasing.
Its per hectare average production is 1,130 kg.
Argentina - It is the tenth biggest corn producing country of the world.
The major place of corn is north-eastern part of Pompass.
Significant corn crop is grown in western and southern region of river Parana.
Danube basin-Corn is cultivated in the plains of this basin.
The per hectare production in Hungary basin , Europe is the most which is even more than United states of America.
The second major crop of Hungary is crop.
Other countries of Asia - Pince , Indonesia , Malaysia and turkey produce corn.
Africa - 1.2 % of the world's corn is produced in this continent.
Corn comes after wheat and rice in the trade of cereals.
Corn is imported in western Europe to feed animals.
Around two third of the country's population is engaged in farming.
It is primarily an agricultural dominant country.
The field for farming is significant here , yet its condition is not good.
Notionally arable land in India is even more than 18 crore hectare from which around 16 crore hectare is cultivated.
Thus there is still scope for increasing cultivation in nearly 2 crore hectare area , but most of the remaining land is inferior.
According to the weather , crops grown in India have two parts - Kharif and Rabi.
Kharif crops are sown in the beginning of rainy season and harvested in the beginning of winter.
They include millet , paddy , oats , cotton , maize , jute , groundnut etc.
Rabi crops are sown at the end of rainy season and harvested in the beginning of summer.
The point is that rabi crops are oat , wheat , lentil , flax and mustard.
Rice , wheat etc are cereals but cotton , jute and sugarcane provide raw materials for industries.
Farmers grow them to sell therefore they are called manufacturing or commercial crops.
India is the chief producer of pulses , -LRB- peanut , sesame , mustard , etc. -RRB- , tea , spices -LRB- ginger , cardamom , black pepper -RRB- and jute and India ranks second in the production of rice , wheat , sugar cane and third in the production of cotton.
Rice shares around 42 % of India's total cereal.
Here Paddy is grown in 25 % of the total arable land.
India ranks second among the rice producing countries of the world.
In India the land under rice cultivation is the most but the production is backward due to less production per hectare.
India produces around 22 % of world's rice.
But it is spent in meeting the need of the country.
Thick variety of rice or the rice which is prepared easily is sown by sprinkling.
But most of the paddy plants are prepared first in beds and then they are plucked and planted in the fields specially prepared.
The paddy is sown in mud and it grows in water logged fields for few weeks.
As the ripening times approaches the requirement of water reduces.
But during October when it starts bearing seeds then water is required for the nourishment of seeds.
Therefore October rain is significant for paddy.
In India the favorable land for the cultivation of paddy is in West Bengal , it has the highest production.
Paddy in the country is mostly cultivated in the Ganges delta and middle Ganges plains , Mahanadi delta and valleys of tributaries , valleys of Brahmaputra and sutlej from where India receives around 75 % or rice.
There is great scope for growth of rice production in India and attempts are being made in this direction and farmers are being provided with improved seeds , manures and insecticides.
The per hectare rice production in Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu is generally double of Uttar Pradesh , Bihar and Madhya Pradesh.
The major reason is adequate irrigation facility through canals for rice cultivation in the delta region of eastern coast.
Sugarcane is the major commercial crop of world.
It is the basis of sugar industry and it is primarily cultivated in India.
Sugarcane is also among the the significant cash crops of India.
The area under Sugarcane cultivation in India is highest in the world.
It is world's second biggest cane producing country of the world.
India produces around one-fourth of world's sugarcane.
Here sugarcane is being cultivated in the plains of Ganges since ancient times and according to some scholars India is the origin of sugarcane from where it has spread to other parts of the world.
Irrigation is required due to less rainfall but sugarcane becomes less sweet due to excess rainfall.
Cold and chilly weather is also harmful for sugarcane.
Dry and delicate temperature is beneficial during harvesting.
For sugarcane cultivation , wet jwalamukhi and red soil should have sufficient strength to maintain the humidity of soil.
Wet mold soil , black cotton soil and dark red mold soil are the most appropriate for this.
Sugarcane pulls a large section of soils fertility in itself.
Therefore there is need to put in manures and fertilizers in large amounts.
93 % of the land under sugarcane farming in India is irrigated.
The sugar industry of India was destroyed due to this competition and India became a major importer of sugar.
There has always been growth in the per hectare production due to consistent increase in scientific methods , manures , irrigation facilities.
Except the hilly parts of Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh sugarcane is grown in almost all the parts of the country but it is mostly grown in upper and middle Ganges plain and irrigated regions of Haryana.
The warm climate of south India is the most favorable for sugarcane.
Therefore the sugarcane grown here are thicker and the per hectare production as compared to North India is more.
The soil here is less fertile than the soil of Ganges and it needs more manure.
Sugarcane is a crop of longer duration.
It stays in the field for around 12 months.
Adsali sugarcane is of best variety , its production is more.
The per hectare production of sugarcane in India is very less as compared to foreign.
The major factors are lack of ideal climate for the growth of sugarcane in India , thin sugarcane , unscientific agriculture , small fields and lack of manure.
sugarcane is primarily used for jaggery , khandsari and sugar production.
India is the major exporter of tea.
India only is the major producer of tea in the world and our country is only the biggest consumer of tea.
China is only supposed to be the place of origin of tea though in Assam also wild plants of tea were seen growing during 1823.
The responsibility of growing it is mostly in the hands of big companies which prepare tea for the market in their factories apart from running the gardens.
High temperature and more rainfall is required for tea farming.
Long dry and extreme cold season both are harmful for tea.
Tea plant can not bear harsh sunlight.
Therefore shady trees are also grown along with tea plants.
It requires cheap and skilled labors and large numbers because tea leaves are picked by hands.
Tea is cultivated in big gardens whose size ranges from 10 hectares to 400 hectares.
80 % of the land under tea in India is in Assam and Bengal and the rest are in Tamil Nadu and Kerala.
Majority of the tea gardens are located in Assam and West Bengal.
The wet soil here is deep and extremely fertile.
The job of leaf picking in the region is done by skilled women who have basically gone to work in the tea gardens of Assam from Chhotanagpur region.
West Bengal ranks second in terms of tea production.
But the tea farming is not so extensive here and it half of the tea land of Assam.
All the tea gardens in the districts of Darjeeling , Jalpaigudi and Kooch Vihar are restricted.
Majority of the tea gardens are found in Duar from where around 75 % of the production west Bengal takes place.
Here the gardens are small and their number is more.
The tea purchasers in India are from Britain , Germany and other countries of Europe and countries of western Asia.
In all these countries the Indian tea faces tough competition from Kenya and Srilanka. ?
In order to re-establish in its previous markets India has to increase both the quantity and quality of its tea and reduce the cost of expenditure in production.
The most important region of producing cotton has gone to Pakistan's side as Pakistan has come into existence yet the land under cotton cultivation in India is more.
21 % of the land under cotton and 16 % of the cotton production region of the world is in India.
Cotton is supposed to the plant of subtropical climate.
Extreme cold weather is harmful for it.
Cotton doesn't require heavy rains.
In India cotton is primarily grown in the regions of 50 to 100 cm rainfall.
At least 50 cm rainfall is utmost important but for good production suitable tropical distribution is much more important than amount of rainfall.
Water logging in soil is harmful for the plants therefore such soil is required which has low water current.
If there is sufficient rainfall in the region of black soil before sowing cotton then rainfall is hardly required at the time of cotton growth.
The cultivation of cotton especially sowing takes place in the month of April-May.
Many labors are required at the time of picking cotton.
The quality of cotton depends on the length of fiber.
The more is the length of the fiber , the best is the cotton and the more fine yarn and fabric can be prepared from it.
Therefore the production of cotton with long and medium fibers is growing.
The farming of foreign cotton is not getting much success in the regions of black soil.
Therefore only indigenous variety could grow there.
In Punjab and Haryana it is above 400 kg but it is only 120 kg in Maharashtra.
It is also required to decrease the production cost of Indian cotton.
The average production of cotton in India is 300 kg.
These countries have developed new scientific methods and new varieties of seeds and are utilizing them.
The farmers have not been much successful in using the new seeds developed so far in India in an extensive and economical way.
The price of Indian cotton is more than international cotton.
Efforts are being made to bring in the use of B. T. cotton seeds in order to increase the per hectare produce of cotton in India.
After the partition of India because of the cotton areas of western Punjab and Sindh being taken into Pakistan the production of cotton in India reduced to a large extent.
The amount of import has reduced due to the increase in production of the country and because of the increase in farming of cotton with long fibers.
But along with this there has been persistent fluctuation in the annual production.
There is fluctuation in the annual production according to the weather.
India exports a bit of best quality cotton of long and short fibrous , but the country still lacks cotton of medium and long fibers.
Because of the unhealthy relations between Pakistan and India , India had to face a lot of difficulty in getting jute from Pakistan.
Hence India tried to speedily increase jute production and within 15-20 years there was increase in the production of jute in India.
Recently because of the lack of demand for jute there has not been increase in area and production.
It is sown between March and May.
Its farming is basically done in the delta of river Ganges and valley of river Brahmaputra.
Here the fertile soil brought by rivers is found which remains new and fresh because of the floods.
Jute is sown in West Bengal during April-May and it becomes ready by August-September.
But the time for sowing in Assam and Bihar is during March-April , and during May-June in Orissa.
After getting prepared the jute plants are cut , rotten in water and the fibers are separated.
Because of its specialty the region with plenty of surface water sources provides pervasive base to the crop and the industry.
The major producer of jute is West Bengal where around 2 of Indian jute region is found and from where 70 % production is procured.
Apart from warm & humid climate and fertile delta soil , here cheap labor is also available.
In Bihar it is basically cultivated in the plains of Mahananda and Kosi in the districts Katihar , Purnea and Saharsa.
Bihar grows around 13 % of India's jute.
The per hectare production in Bihar is less than Bengal.
Assam grows around 10 % of India's jute.
India basically exports goods made of jute.
India ranks first in the production of jute in the world while it ranks second among jute industries of the world.
The major cereals are rice , wheat and millet and maize and pulses come after that.
Rice states are spread in those parts of the country where the annual rainfall is more than 100cm.
Along with rice in West Bengal and Valley of Assam , tea on hilly slopes and jute on fertile land are important.
apart from rice the place of millets comes in the plateau and hilly parts of Chota Nagpur , Orissa and neighboring Andhra Pradesh.
Apart from rice in the coastal plains of Tamil Nadu , the major crops in northern part are maize and groundnut and millet and cotton in the southern part.
Wheat states are located in the north west of India.
The annual rainfall here is less than 60 cm and the soil is fertile.
Rabi crops are more important in the state.
cotton and sugarcane are significant among the cash crops.
Fruits especially apples are significant in the Himalayan region.
The soil in the plains rocky regions are either red or black cotton soil.
Apart from millet , wheat and oil seeds are significant in western Rajasthan.
Groundnut and cotton in the kathiyavad region of Gujarat very significant among the cash crops.
Especially in Kathiyavad groundnut is the major crop.
In the entire region millet , cotton and groundnut are three significant crops , and apart from them wheat is also significant in the northern parts.
Tobacco is significant in the Gantur region of Andhra Pradesh.
The major crops are maize and millet.
The forests are burnt here to clean the land for farming.
The per hectare production of every crop in India is less than world average.
The per hectare production of rice in India is 2 of Australia and less than half of Japan and Italy.
The reserve bank has expressed its concern over the decreasing development rate in the annual agricultural report.
The rate of agricultural development was 4.4 % during 80s which remained to 3.2 during 90s and at present has fallen to 2.5%.
The meaning of falling economic rate is that agricultural production is increasing but the development rate is persistently decreasing.
The Reserve bank has blamed the falling investment in agricultural sector by the government for this situation.
3.4 % of country's income during 70s was being spent on the basic agricultural facilities such as canal and seed research but currently it is restricted to 2.5%.
The Reserve bank has cautioned the government to increase the government investment in agriculture to maintain high growth rate in agriculture.
The anxiety is Reserve bank is right.
Agricultural production will increase with increase in investment.
The income of a farmer is determined by the coefficient of production and price.
The reason behind the worsening condition of farmers is reduction in the price of agricultural products.
Though it seems that the price of agricultural products are increasing , for example 20 years back the price of wheat was 5rs and currently it is 12rs and during the same time the price of a car has increased from 55000 Rupees to 220000 Rupees.
Which means that there has been four time increase in the goods of the industry while the agricultural goods has increased 2.5 times.
The basic reason of downfall in the price of agricultural products is deficient increase in the world population because of which there is ordinary increase in the expenditure of cereals.
A person can eat 5-10 chapatis a day but he can travel in many cars.
Thus the demand of agricultural products is limited.
Agricultural production is consistently increasing.
Forests are being cut to build farms.
There has been increase in the production of grains due to new hybrid variety of seeds.
Irrigation has developed by building canals.
The demand of cereals is limited while the supply is increasing.
with this the price of agricultural products are falling in world markets.
In such a situation the government should have sheltered the domestic market of agricultural products and should have artificially increased the prices so that the farmers could fill their stomach.
The farmers could have been inspired to increase the production inspired by the high prices with which the food security of the country could also be ensured.
The rich countries have done the same thing to maintain their food security.
They are providing subsidies to their farmers in large numbers with which their farmers are producing in large numbers.
Because of the limited population the large production is being consumed in their country.
The production cost of rich countries is more yet they are exporting.
The cost of production in India is low yet we are importing it.
In this perspective , the Reserve bank says that the government investment on basic agricultural facilities should be increased to maintain the development rate of agriculture.
This policy is absolutely fine , provided the increased production is exported.
Then our food security will be maintained with increased production.
Also the domestic prices will remain high and the income of our farmers will increase by exporting surplus production.
For this it is necessary for the government to give subsidy on export of agricultural products.
The result of agricultural investment is opposite due to lack of export subsidy.
Production is increased due to investment in agriculture.
Thus the price of agricultural products fall.
Consequently farmer's income falls and despite high production farmers are compelled to commit suicide.
The has been so many investments in the basic facilities during the last 60 years.
Despite these investments we have to import wheat , pulses and edible oil.
The reason the falling prices.
The government should increase the investment as per the suggestions of the Reserve bank but at the same time it should also arrange for the export of extra production.
Unfortunately , the government is moving in the opposite direction.
The investment in agriculture is being reduced and the import is being increased.
W.T.O talk between U.S. , European Union , India and Brazil has failed.
It was an agricultural issue.
America had demanded that India should remove the security being given to the agricultural products.
By reducing the imports of agricultural products by India America's farmers will get the market of apples , almonds , wine etc.
Therefore America is demanding that India should open its agricultural market for import.
In contrast , India demands that U. S. should reduce the subsidies given to their farmers.
American farmers are making the production expensive.
Yet they sell cheap goods in India because they are getting subsidy in large numbers.
Because of the lack of consent on this issue the talk has been canceled.
Some Indian scholars believe that instead of sticking on agriculture India should adopt a flexible way.
They say that our agriculture is unsuccessful.
Our cost of production is usually more.
That is why we have to protect the farmers with cheap imports.
This is true that American farmers are selling cheap goods because of subsidy but other countries are getting cheap goods from us without subsidy.
For example the palm oil of Malaysia is cheap and our mustard and groundnut oil is getting expensive.
Thus we should concentrate on service sectors.
We are at number one position in terms of service sectors.
In such a situation making agriculture a major issue is like saving a sinking boat.
On the other side we are powerful in service sectors.
In our culture , emphasis is laid on the development of growth.
That is why our engineers are successful.
Thus we should suffer some loss in agriculture but concentrate on the emerging opportunities of service sectors.
The problem is that the contribution of agriculture in country's economy has been declining steadily.
90 % of our income came from agriculture during independence.
Today only 19 % is coming from agriculture.
But 60 % people are dependent on this 19 %.
The boat of agriculture is obviously sinking but large numbers passengers have boarded it.
Before letting the ship sink it is necessary to make the arrangements for the passengers to sit in the flight.
Therefore agriculture can not be abandoned before creating 3 crore employments in service sectors.
It is also uncertain that employments would be created in service sectors in large numbers.
The scope for employment in services like software , call center , music , editing , research , translation , banking , insurance , transportation , tourism seem to be limited.
The government should soon calculate on this matter.
We should see that out of 30 crore agricultural laborers , in which service sector the 20 crore be engaged and how much time will this transition take.
Further steps should be taken soon to achieve this transition.
Previously country capital subsidy plan was in function.
The government used to give subsidies to establish new industries.
Thus the expansion of subsidy service sector will take time.
Till then we should postpone W.T.O talk.
There are rumors that other developing countries are pressurizing India to take the negotiations ahead.
India is capable in service sector , China in manufacturing and Saudi Arabia in oil.
Every country must develop its capacity in which it is leading.
The development of this capacity will take time.
Thus at present it is good to postpone the W.T.O talks.
It is necessary that the given time should be utilized in the development of ones capacity.
While pronouncing the word ' farmer ' in English or ' kisaan ' in Hindi an image of a man emerges in the thought of people.
The loss of this thought is suffered by the women associated with farming and associated sectors -LRB- animal husbandry , fish farming , forestry and nursery.
The total participation of women in farming sector work is 40 %.
Among the total male workers working in agriculture sector today , there are 53 % men and 75 % women.
85 % of women among rural women workers do various work associated with agriculture.
In the agriculture sector women are engaged in work right from sowing seeds to playing the role of farm manager.
Women are the axis of agriculture.
But their significant role was never acknowledged.
Possibly that s why the right of women in agricultural is asset is almost none and despite high dynamics they get very less wages as compared to men.
Looking at such kind of gender discrimination and the international nature of agriculture the national commission for women has prepared a draft named ' National Policy for women in agriculture ' with the objective to attract the attention of agriculture policy makers towards the needs and problems of women related to agriculture.
In the tactical document prepared by the Swaminathan comission , significant concerns associated with women farmers and agriculture sector has been ignored.
Consequently the National commission for women initiated this looking at the various avenues of agriculture in the contemporaneity scenario.
Special emphasis was laid on shared land lease in agricultural asset in the national policy.
Registering the agricultural land in the name of both the couple and lodging it in governmental records have been strongly advocated in the policy.
It should be noted that the national commission for women had sent a suggestion to the Swaminathan commission to incorporate the shared lease issue in the layout of national farmer's policy named Jai Kisaan.
The government has been recommended to work steadily on shared lease in the national farmer policy.
Food , special education of women and arts have not been accepted in the national farmer policy.
It reflects in the national farmer policy prepared by the former well known agricultural scientist M. S. Swaminathan the chairman of National farmer commission , it has been said in the draft of national women's commission.
While according to the draft prepared by the national commission for women the traditional knowledge of women regarding seed and biological diversity can prove to be profitable.
Their knowledge should be acknowledged and it should be used in the agricultural research.
Transforming the male dominant agricultural scenario in our country is not that simple.
The bureaucracy of agriculture department in not sensitive towards women.
Their work provides service to the entire agricultural community but they pay more attention towards the male workers and in such a situation women are ignored.
The agricultural system does not take interest in the problems of women.
Meera Swaminathan the wife of Dr. M. S. Swaminathan in 1999 prepared an 18 hour coursework based on gender issues in earning agriculture and rural living.
The motive behind this is to sensitize the students of agriculture colleges towards the agriculture and rural structure to understand the perspective of women but despite these many years no favorable answer has been received from anywhere.
Prime Minister Dr. Manmohan Singh has announced a package of 25000 crore rupees of agricultural sector.
the states will get this money in the form of center assistance for the next four years.
For this the agriculture ministry and the planning commission will prepare an elaborate program in the coming two months.
In the concluding remarks of the 53rd meeting of National development council -LRB- NDC -RRB- held last days the Prime minister approved a ten point proposal for agriculture sector of NDC before this announcement.
It includes food security mission , growth in cereal production , increasing agriculture investment , speeding marketing reforms , new conduct of fertilizer subsidy and strengthening elaborated structure.
In the meeting the Prime minister said that the center is ready to increase the investment but the states should also make efforts at their respective level.
This investment should reach the ground level so as to have better results.
He said that very soon a Food Security Mission will be launched to stop the dependence on food import.
He said that strict decision has to be taken to achieve four per cent growth in agriculture.
Further , there should be a periodic review to implement them.
He asked the finance minister to bring all the farmer organization within preview of debt system in four years.
While the states were asked to prepare a blueprint of investment on the basis of local demands as per the plans , production and increase in productivity.
Further need for dual strategy was mentioned on the basis of meteoric and aims of coming 4-5 years.
Denying the cutting of food subsidy the Prime minister said that the farmers have to change the current subsidy structure to gain more profit.
The supply of fertilizers , water , debts , seeds , technique and machinery everything will be ensured.
talking about the demand for more resources for the irrigation of the states he said that the planning commission will consider it.
In the ten-point proposal there has been agreement on increasing the wheat production by 80 million tonnes , rice by 20 million tonnes rice and pulses by one million tonnes.
The NDC approved proposal includes the matter of more money being given by the center for meteoric irrigation facility.
Majority of the states in the meeting put forth the demand of providing more money by the center and reducing the interest rate on debts for the farmers and relieving debts.
Possibly first time in the history of the country an eighteen day agriculture movement named ' Seed Satyagrah journey ' was run last days which aimed at awaring the farmers and saving their traditional agricultural benefits.
In 1917 in Champaran -LRB- bihar -RRB- , during the English rule in India Nation's father Mahatma Gandhi ran a Satyagrah movement against the exploitation of indigo farmers.
From such a historical land Dr. Vandana Shiva who did an agitation for the women and environment had started a 18 day said seed satyagrah journey in the convenorship of her organization ' Nav Dhanya ' in which the farmers of Uttarakhand , Bihar , Jharkhand and Rajasthan had participated.
In the president's accomplished journey at mausoleum Rajghat the participants took the oath of ' seed sway and food security '.
The suspicion of ' Seed Satyagrah journey ' is wide ranged.
As the world today has shrunk to a global village , profit and loss have become like a communicable disease.
Agriculture is also affected by it.
All the international organizations running under the influence of developed countries are not only exploiting the developing and poor countries by any means but also wish to keep them in the same condition.
Imposing foreign seeds instead of traditional seeds is the basic part of this conspiracy.
If a country of community captures the agriculture seeds of the world then it can not be said to be a world victory.
It is necessary to remind in the context that an ex politician of America , Henry Kissinger had said that if we control the food grain of the world then we can also control our population.
There are two basic reasons behind the farmer suicides in the country - the first is that we almost completely left traditional seeds and farming and the second is despite knowing the world dangers government has not preserved agriculture.
It is also not less surprising that only 57 million ha area out of the total 190 million ha cropped area of country is irrigated.
Traditionally , there is such a diversity of agriculture in the country that farmers can not remain hungry.
46 out of the total of 60 kinds of world's soil -LRB- clay -RRB- are found here , where every kind of crop can grow.
We also have six season here.
In contrast abroad usually there a similar kind of weather and a typical kind of soil.
Therefore our agriculture can not depend on the seeds of that place.
Our traditional seeds include hundreds of varieties of seeds like Paspalum scrobiculatum , maize , millet , paddy , lentil , pigeon pea , sorghum for which natural rain is sufficient.
There is stopgap produce despite no rainfall.
Our indigenous seeds are according to the weather here and they do not get infected by insects and diseases while the treatment and keeping of foreign seeds costs a lot.
It is the conspiracy of the multinational companies to refrain the Indian farmers from the production of their seeds , saving and commutation.
In the current crisis situation of agriculture we have to determine whether our priority is to stop suicides by conserving and preserving traditional agriculture or adopting slavery and so called export by using hybrid.
The Sayagrah journey of Gandhi Satyagrah Ashram , Bhitarwa -LRB- champaran -RRB- should move on.
The policy of our traditional agriculture and maximum use of labors can only make the country happy.
The mechanization policy can only make the country happy.
Mechanization will only fill the deed box of some people , it will not feed the poor.
Western countries and we have every kind of social and geographical differences.
Therefore we are incomparable.
The population is less there therefore machines are their compulsion.
Our population is more therefore human labor is essential.
In the Indian folk tradition there is immense intellectual knowledge related to vegetation , herbs cow-dung , cow-urine , minerals , juice-science.
Thousands of ideas benefiting human body from plants and animals are easily available in canons like Ayurveda , Yajurveda , Bhavprakash etc.
Because of the carelessness of Indian government anybody is free to get a patent from these ideas.
Because of this carelessness our patent on Neem , Basmati rice and turmeric went to foreign and we could not do anything.
After getting the patent of Neem some multinational companies of America and Japan have enslaved our intellect right by expressing their intellect right on various insecticides , biochemicals and medicinal values.
Neem has been a priceless asset of India that is why our sages began a tradition of planting it in house yard.
Some companies have made turmeric also their prey.
Thus Basmati rice the gift of Punjab has the medicinal value of keeping food channels healthy but we do not have right even on this.
A similar buggering is being carried with Indian seeds and our government is quiet and may be its intentionally quiet.
Genetically modified seeds are not only destroying our crops but also tremendously ejecting harmful effects.
The bacteria put in such kinds of seeds grow half-breed bacteria or virus which are giving birth to many kinds of unknown diseases.
Recently information was sought by the green peas organization regarding the effects of GM seeds on GM brinjal , lady's finger , mustard and rice crops.
After examination it was known that the GM seeds are poisonous which are adversely affecting human health and also harming the agricultural land.
The central government is considering in amending patent law.
Under this law the drug companies get the right to sell new drugs for 20 years at their desired prices , the central government is considering that the patent be given only on original research.
Patent should not be given on ordinary research or on the new formulation of old drugs , such as the patent on paracetamol , the drug that reduces fever has been ended.
If sugar is put in paracetamol tablets to make it sweet then it can again be patented , giving patent on sweet paracetamol will fetch sole right to the applicant company to make this medicine for the next 20 years.
The common intelligence says that putting sugar with paracetamol can not be called an invention.
The government wants to curb such kinds of ordinary inventions but in the W.T.O trips negotiations it has been said that every kind of inventions will be given patent.
Therefore the government is hesitating for such an amendment.
The government had elected a committee in the chairmanship of R. A. Maleshkar to consider on this issue.
The committee was asked to speak whether giving patent to original inventions would be in accordance to trips or not.
This kind of a system ha been lodged by a drug company in Chennai High court.
The government has not given patent on anti cancer drugs.
The government says that all the elements of the drug were available during the past and they have again been presented for patent with ordinary amendment.
The Mashelkar committee took the decision that the ordinary inventions should also get patent otherwise it will violate the trips law.
The committee argued that currently in India most of the research works are not original but of ordinary kind.
If there will be ban on patenting ordinary inventions then the Indian companies will lag behind.
The Mashelkar committee gave more importance to achieving research skills by the Indian drug companies and less importance to the ill effects of high prices of the medicines on the citizens.
Whether the Indian companies progress for a long time or not , the Indian citizens will definitely suffer adverse effects immediately.
It is fortunate that the Supreme court of America has rejected the worries of Mashelkar committee.
The system is that patent will only be given for pure research.
The American company Teliflex added two previous inventions.
The Supreme court has said that patent can not be given at this invention because it does not have original discovery.
The uses thus incorporated can be normal and they can not be called invention.
The patent law of America has been revised with this decision.
Until now there was arrangement for the applicant to just show that he has discovered a new technique or thing.
The investigation of the depth of newness was not necessary.
Even if the newness was simple in its normal way yet it was made patent.
Patent law is the basis of prosperity of the rich countries.
Currently more 90 % patents are there with the rich countries.
They can earn huge profit by selling us these patented goods at high price.
There are two ways in front of us.
One way is that we can be a part of their unrighteous act and encourage our companies that they should also receive patent by ordinary reforms and get high price from the citizens.
The other way is to make efforts to change the patent law.
If it is essential to give the patent of common reforms under trips rules then trips law itself should be dismissed.
We should not be a part of ill behavior of the rich countries and make efforts to destroy their wrong behavior.
The irony is that our scientists are encouraging the drug companies because our companies would flourish in their shelter.
Now the time has come to make plans for combating personal calamities apart from natural calamities.
This step can prove to be effective for combating farmer suicides.
Some people believe that because of debt relief plan financial indiscipline will increase among the farmers and there will be increase in number of farmers who intentionally do not pay the debt.
Here it has to be made clear whichever discipline it is , it depends on the mind and inner self of an individual.
Those who are sensitive towards their image in society do not violate discipline in common conditions.
The second thing is that agricultural business is different from trade and industries.
Here a farmer needs to invest in every season and if his record in bank is alright then he will keep getting the facilities of the bank.
During the past three years the UPA government has made many successful efforts to change the fate of the farmers and rural India.
Agriculture is now among the priorities of the government.
Few days back a package worth 25 thousand crore rupees was announced on the issue.
Agricultural debts are being given in large amounts.
Many reforms have been done in the agricultural marketing sector.
Farming is not beneficial from economical point of view for the small holdings therefore policies regarding promoting corporate farming are essential.
The 21st century has begun with the new challenges in the area of maintaining food security.
The major challenges are - climatic change , the changing nature of farms because of fuel production due to high prices of petroleum based fuel , damage to the required ecology for agricultural progress and incessantly increasing insecticides.
As far as the question on climatic change is concerned there are few worrying aspects like increasing temperature , drought due to decreasing rains , increasing cases of floods , increasing water level due to melting of snow cover of arctic and antarctic region.
The increasing amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere has especially provided few opportunities in gardening.
Research should be especially initiated To face these opportunities and challenges.
Another area which needs attention is including women in the mainstream of technology and its publicity.
Here there is tremendous scope for starting science revolution for women in science.
It is seen that in all the convocation ceremonies in the colleges generally females top.
Women have received the maximum number of medals and women lead other areas of educational identity.
Despite this in the life after studying they do not remain fit to contribute up to that extent what they can actually give or what they themselves expect to give.
In the long history of Indian science congress only few women have been appointed as chairperson.
For example there are many home science colleges and women colleges in our country.
All these institutions should associate the nutrition , food , science and primary agricultural products to the nearby science and technology parks for value culture.
Further we need to pay attention on science subjects for women.
There is tremendous scope for the growth of production , income , balanced development of crops , animal husbandry , sea and pond fish rearing , agriculture by making the rural women technically able.
The future of the agriculture of our country will depend on the steps we take to make the rural women technically and scientifically efficient.
Today we are celebrating environment day in such a condition when along with water-forest-land there is danger on our social environment also.
The temperature of the earth is increasing because of global warming while the fire of dissatisfaction is flaring up our social environment.
For our needs we have cut trees , ruined mountains , did not leave the river water fit for drinking or bathing.
Some people say that it is the duty of the experts to save environment.
Or the government can save the environment by making big plans.
Experts and government can certainly play significant role in this but being a common citizen we can also do a lot of things.
For example we can obviously plant one tree every year or use public transport instead of private at least once in a week.
If one billion people every day save even one mug of water then this quantity can be big.
We can save the nature from getting suffocated by using paper envelops instead of using polythene.
Further they also do the work of keeping the social environment peaceful and beautiful.
It would be little when we are proud of the Green Revolution that came in the seventh decade of the last centu.
People still remember that once every year there remained lack of bundles.
If you had gone to the village during that time you would have seen that except few farmers almost everybody had no grains.
They all worked as labors in farms and they lived with the little grain what they got in return of laboring.
There condition was more pathetic during the months of the year when there was less work for farm labors.
During those days when the people where fed up of the lack of food , leading insulted life , a terrific breeze of revolution had slowly started flowing.
During the same time Green revolution came in the leadership of a great agriculture scientist Doctor Norman Borlaug.
Indian scientist Swaminathan was also there with him.
The production of crops was too much.
Wheat was started being grown where only rice used to grow.
But since the 15 years some undesirable consequences of the Green Revolution are beginning to come up.
Punjab which was once the most fertile state is badly trapped today in its grip.
All the groundwater which was accumulated for lakhs of years has been pulled out for irrigation.
According to the Saudi's only one percent of the area of their country is arable but it is the sixth biggest food exporter of the world.
While some people suggest products made from neem to reduce the use of insecticides , others are busy in making plants of such genes from which insects are allergic.
One more revolution is approaching slowly where all this will happen.
The marginal and small farmers who made India independent in the production of food grains are now disable.
The farmers have broken down not from economical point of view but from psychological point of view.
The figures of farmers suicide say this.
The farmers who increased the production and productivity are not getting appropriate price of their produce , rather the prices have fallen.
During the same time the rate of essential goods like manure , seeds , pesticide etc increased.
Due to adverse climate , the crops were spoilt and the income decreased all the more and the pressure of debts increased.
In order to save the farmers from this condition and to make them economically strong the NDA government formed a six membered national farmer commission in the chairmanship of Sompal.
The government changed as the commission started its work.
The new UPA government reelected the commission in the chairmanship of M. S. Swaminathan , an agriculture expert and the farther of green revolution.
The Swaminathan commission presented around five reports during November , 2004 to October , 2006.
In the five reports of 2000 pages , there are around 200 recommendations for the development of farming and farmers.
Its most significant recommendation is that the minimum support price of farmer's produce should be 50 % more than the cost incurred.
Therefore the government has increased the minimum support price of wheat from 650 rupees to 750 rupees.
Thus by giving 100 rs bonus wheat , there has been 30 % price growth as the minimum support price of wheat has increased from 650 rupees to 850 rupees  quintal.
The commission has recommended that the farmers should get the debt at 4 % interest rate.
currently they have to give 9-10 % interest.
The cost of manure , seeds and insecticide is 50 % of the to total cost of production.
The commission has recommended that by encouraging biological farming their cost will decrease and the income will increase.
The agriculture scientists say that there is not much difference in the production.
Biological farming is being encouraged in the European union countries since 1990.
The production and income of the farmers doing biological farming will increase if they get 3500 to 4000 rupees.
Due to more amount of cotton and sugarcane production for the last 3-4 years as compared to the demand , their income has decreased as the value f cotton and sugarcane has fallen down.
The commission has recommended that there should be direct contact among cotton and garment mills.
It is essential to fix the price and demand via single medium for the cotton producing farmers.
Often the sugarcane producing farmers do not get money by selling sugarcane because the sugar mills have suffered loss.
sugar , electricity , liquor and paper are made from sugarcane.
But the farmers get benefits only from the price of sugar.
They do not get anything from other profits.
It should also be considered and the farmers should get more price for the sugarcane.
Three and a half crore farmers produce sorghum , millet and maize.
The demand for its production is decreasing , they don't get the reasonable price and due to lack of management of its purchase and selling the income and the production of these farmers is decreasing.
Millet and maize are appropriate from the point of view of health.
The commission has recommended to use this produce in the form of ' nutritive grain ' in order to improve the condition of farmers.
The soybean association of America helps in increasing the income of farmers by selling soybean and the eatables prepared from it.
In the year 1967 our scientists began a huge program to bring an increase in the production of cotton as a result of which more than twice increase took place in both per hectare produce and gross produce in a few years only.
Area of cotton farming is maximum in India -LRB- around 80 lakh hectare -RRB- and this is the only country where all four types of cotton worth farming are farmed.
But in production india's place is fourth after America , Russia and China which are maximum producing countries.
The major reason behind the low production of cotton in India is that proper irrigation facility is available only in 1 of the agricultural land and the rest of the farming depends upon rain water.
According to production per acre in states Maharashtra is a leader but in gross produce Gujarat is topmost.
In cotton farming more than 4.5 crore people are busy in employment and run their household through this only.
It is difficult to describe the beauty of cotton farms in words - it felt like as if heaven itself spread whiteness on this earth.
The smile and shine of thousands of fiber coming out of the seeds of core was enamouring and it appeared as if they were decorative sculptures with magical attraction on 4 to 6 foot high plants.
Dr. Joshi told students that cotton is a seed fiber which grows from plant of Gossypium plant.
It is a member of Malvaceae family which is also known as mallow family in layman's language.
36 varieties are approved under Gossypium species but to produce cotton of a good variety from these farming of only four kinds of cotton is done because other species are wild.
Gossypium Hirsutum is the most important plant species of these which is originally found in Cambodia and Mexico but now it is being grown in a large part of America.
It is important for many qualities to be there in cotton crop.
Of these some properties are as follows : Early maturation of crop , enough availability of immunity to defend from diseases and insects and pests , of reaping more harvest , fibers being more strong etc.
New varieties of cotton are being issued which contain above mentioned qualities.
For the production of cotton in every cotton species various varieties of cotton have been developed through the medium of breeding program.
The chromosomes of two species can be interbred to develop hybrid plants.
Recently few years back a new seed of cotton has been prepared in America through genetic modification which is known as Bt cotton seed.
This seed provides the cotton crop with the power to fight from diseases and insects.
With its use there has been tremendous increase in the cotton production of America and China.
The permission to sow this seed in India has been recently granted.
Warm climate , adequate humidity and loamy soil along with proper irrigation facility are required for best cotton production.
Cotton is sown at different times depending upon the climatic condition of the region , types of soil and the cotton species and varieties.
Cotton is generally grown in the mid of May in north India.
After sowing when the seeds grow and the main root enters the soil then it starts taking its food from the soil for its growth.
Right from the growth of cotton plant to its flowering stage there is great impact of sunlight , warm climate and availability of water.
For example if there is high temperature both during day and night then the flowering stage begins lately.
Within four to six weeks it starts budding and after 100 days of sowing the plant starts flowering white or light  dark yellow colored very sensitive flowers.
The seed capsules grow very fast and after ripening it becomes 2.5 cm in width and 3.8 cm in length.
The seed capsule ruptures after 50-80 days and during this time of the year -LRB- November -RRB- when it completely opens we get to see this sight.
The tents of cotton fibers are generally plucked in the month of November with hands in India and with the help of machine in abroad.
The teacher said that silk worm rearing in India started in the year 400.
Now India leads the silk producing countries of the world.
It is a small industry where 50,000 villages are engaged in the work of sericulture.
India is the only country where various kinds of silk are procured by rearing many kinds of silk worms.
Golden colored Munga silk is grown only in our county.
Like agriculture , silkworm rearing is also a major means of earning livelihood where many thousands of laborers produce valuable fibers while working.
Silk is prepared by many kinds of worms but Bombyx Mori is the the major silkworm among them and silk is produced in the special environment of sericulture farm.
The larva of this worm eat mulberry leaves.
Silkworm looks like butterfly from whose eggs initially caterpillar is built.
Then the caterpillar pupa builds a cyst across itself for its safety in the process of chrysalis which is known as cocoon.
The chrysalis comes out of the cocoon in the form of moth after complete maturation and then the female moth lays eggs.
Thus the life cycle of silkworm completes.
They said that they rear silkworms of Bombyx Mori species only.
The female moth of these insects give approximately 700 eggs after coming out of the cocoon and then die.
While silkworms of other species give 350-400 eggs.
The size of every egg is equal to the size of a pin head which has a soft point.
Because of this soft point the cocoon breaks easily.
These eggs are very light.
The weight of around 40,000 eggs is just approximately an ounce.
According to the climate these eggs turn into larva within 3-7 days.
A caterpillar eats 7,000-9 ,000 times mulberry leaves of its weight.
While growing a caterpillar frequently changes its skin so that it covers its increasing size.
Further this caterpillar becomes a light pink colored transparent worm after which it starts losing interest in eating.
Every worm has two glands which are located in the head portion of the worm below its jaw.
The silkworm compresses both its gland and continuously makes two fibers of silk.
If we see this thin fiber through microscope then we will know that this fiber is made of two fibers.
These thin fibers are called brin.
These two thin silk brins come out coherently with serene in the spinning head which is known as bave.
These silk fibers are triangular which have organized molecular chains in the form of micro and macro fibrils.
A single silkworm makes silk with the speed of 46 m.
It will be more appropriate to say that while making a complete fibril it writes the digit 8 for about 12 lakh number of times.
While making fibers the worm loses its weight and the caterpillar chrysalis turns into pupa inside the cocoon and becomes a moth in two weeks.
Now in this condition silkworm takes out the alkaline element and makes pores by dissolving some part of cocoon with its help and the worm come out of the cocoon through this pore.
But in sericulture farm we do not let the chrysalis come out.
The silk worm is kept in light steam and killed inside the cocoon before it comes out.
This process is known as stoving.
In the stoving process silkworm is killed inside the cocoon but the silk fiber or cocoon doesn't get harmed because of the steam.
The color and shape of cocoon depends upon the diet and climate of the silkworm.
The cocoon obtained from silkworm in china are mostly white in color because the caterpillar there eats white mulberry leaves.
In Japan and Europe the cocoon are cream and light yellow colored because there the caterpillar there eats castor oil plants and absorbs an element named tannin inside it.
In Japan light green colored cocoon are also grown whose caterpillars eat green leaves.
Apart from white cocoon , gray and light brown colored cocoon are found in India.
In order to differentiate between the luster and softness of fibers it is essential to know that every fiber is made of two thin brins and these brins are joined with saricin glue.
Thus we can say that every fiber is primarily made of two chemical elements: The first element is fibrin , in the form of liquid which comes out of spinrat and get dried after coming in contact with air and the other is saricin glue.
Every thread contains approximately 75 % fibrin and 25 % saricin.
Four kinds of silk are produced in our country , mulberry silk , tasar , aeri and moonga.
India is the only country where golden yellow colored munga silk is produced.
Mulberry silkworms are reared at many places in India such as hilly regions of Assam , Bengal , Konnur , Tamilnadu , Dehradun and Himachal Pradesh.
UniVoltine and Bivoltine silkworm in Kashmir , good quality Multivoltine silkworm in Bengal and Karnataka.
Our country produces approximately 90 % mulberry silk and the rest of the 10 % is wild silk tasar , aeri and moonga.
Since when silk board has been established in India , there has been significant progress in scientific methods of silk production.
The silk worms from which tasar silk is obtained are produced in warm and temperate climatic regions of the country.
The cocoons are mostly oval , tough and brown colored.
The tasar silk caterpillar eats oak tree leaves at the place of mulberry leaves , possibly the brown color of its cocoon is because of tannin absorption of leaves.
One doesn't needs to kill the tasar silkworm inside cocoon and long fibers are easily available.
But the tasar fibers are thick and tough as compared to mulberry silk fibers and the amount of saricin found in them is also more than moonga and aeri silk.
The golden colored silk is obtained from Multivoltine class of silkworms.
This silkworm is particularly found in Assam.
The cocoon of this silkworm is closed and the shell is very thin.
The weight of a single cocoon is approximately 6.3 grams where the thin layer weighs just 0.5 grams.
It is a white or red colored silk which is obtained from silkworms of multivoltine class.
Such worms are reared in Assam , Bihar , Bengal , Manipur , Orissa and Tripura.
The cocoons of such worms are somewhat long.
The weight of a cocoon is just 3 grams.
The specialty of such cocoons is that they change colors.
Because of the open mouth of the Aeri silk they can not be reeled.
The process of extracting fibers from cocoon is called reeling.
This process requires sound knowledge of reeler and a good reeling machine so that adequate amount of silk is extracted from the cocoon.
Since the fiber extracted from a single cocoon is very thin and which is difficult to reel therefore the fibers of 3-10 cocoons are together reeled.
For example in order to make a multifilament yarn of 20-22 danier 7 cocoons are sufficient.
The adverse effect of globalization and world trade organizations on the farmers of developing countries has been a subject of concern in recent years , the reasons of concern regarding particularly the cotton producing farmers are very clear.
20,000 American farmers were helped with 470 crore dollars in the year 2005 , it is equal to the market price of this crop.
Because of this reason the prices of cotton in world market has fallen down to 9-13 % , despite this about 1 of world's cotton export is received by America.
There has been complaints regarding the adverse effect globalization especially by the Vidarbha farmers and also at other places in India.
A leading farmer worker of Vidarbha , Vijay Jawanghiya recently said that during 1997 and 2003 110 lakh bell cotton has been imported.
The import tax has been reduced to 10 %.
The garment mills that export cotton do not need to pay even this.
That is why subsidy based cheap foreign prices are directly harming our farmers.
According to the available figures 412 farmers committed suicide in Vidarbha in the year 2005 , while in 2006 the number of farmers committing suicide reached 1050: In the first month of 2007 62 farmers committed suicide in vidarbha.
In July , 2006 the Prime minister visited this place and announced a special assistance of 3750 rupees.
In July , 2006 the Prime minister visited this place and announced a special assistance of 3750 rupees.
Thus the analysis presented by " Economist " magazine does not come up with any effective solution despite seriously admitting the problems of the Vidarbha farmers.
This effective solution can only be achieved through strong farmers' association.
On the basis of which they can be successful in rejecting tactics of various lobbying and achieving judicious price.
The society should comprehensibly support this effort of the farmers.
Further for a long term solution on this issue we should pay attention to the views of Mahatma Gandhi which is related to the self-dependence of villages.
In this regard Hathkargha Julahas and cotton farmers have close and complementary relations.
The indigenous varieties of cotton are made available to the Julahas by the farmers.
Handloom weavers do not get worried about the raw materials in this system and the farmers growing indigenous varieties at low prices get market near their selling area.
The farmers can grow the food-grains of his choice and cotton together and indigenous cotton can be grown on relatively less fertile land.
In such a situation the possibility for small farmers to stick would be more.
Today in the midst of increasing problems due to globalization it has become necessary to keep alternative thinking alive.
According to the bulletin of world bank the tenure of growth and development commission would be of two years.
It is expected from the commission that it will increase its understanding in poverty reduction and economic growth from the perspective of development.
The bank claims that the commission is independent and unbiased.
Whatever be the claim at surface level but it is far away from reality.
If we see speeches , articles , books etc of the committee then it will be clear that they all are doused in a single ideological color.
They all are completely committed to the neo-liberal strategy of economic growth.
What was the compulsion of the world bank that it initiated the establishment of this commission.
In order to know this we have to go back a little into the past.
During the beginning of 90s John Williams rendered " Washington consensus " which became the ideological basis of the present day globalization.
One need not say that the active role of state in the economic system was negated and this notion was created that the market forces shall wisely and skillfully allocate the resources with which there will be great economic growth.
Consequently automatically there will be economic growth.
After the defeat of soviet Union , socialist camp and non-aligned movement America thought that it could run the world according to its will.
But the recent years' series of events have disappointed America.
One after another Latin American countries kept refuting Washington consensus.
In many countries there the leftist have come into power who are against globalization based on Washington consensus.
The inclination towards leftism continues.
Western countries like France , Spain , Italy and Germany are vocal against it.
The romantic ideas of Thomas Fridman , " New York Times's " columnist has been wasted.
The economic differences between countries is incessantly increasing instead of reducing.
Perpetually promoted " American dream " within which there were talks of raising oneself through talent , passion and hard work is now in dustbins.
Paul Harris in British newspaper " Observer " -LRB- 8th June -RRB- writes that its a regret that the old argument -LRB- American dream -RRB- no more remains correct.
The gap between the rich and the poor has perpetually increased.
Consequently the capacity to cross this bridge has decreased.
While the salary of one American representative family has increased 18 % in the last 25 years , there has been 200 % increase in 1 % richest families.
One doesn't need to mention the condition of India.
The custom of genetically modified food is incessantly increasing in the world.
America is trying hard to export these food items because the producers of these products have put tremendous pressure on America to increase the export as much as possible.
But after getting many kinds of scientific information one gets to know that these processed food is not fit for human use.
After knowing the truth about it India should discourage its import.
While America is trying hard for its export through world trade organization.
Henry Miller , who has been the chief controller of American food and drug administration since 1979-1994 says that in this concern the government agencies of America did what the agricultural traders expected them to do.
The federal regulation analyst of genetically processed food in America , David skibirt says that most of the food controller of america are trusting the information of those who themselves are producers of biotech crops: And the figures given by them have not been published in any of the journals nor have they been analyzed seriously.
Our governments are also taking many steps to ease the process of yielding land to the companies.
Land ceiling acts are being loosely held and land market is being developed.
The farmers are themselves or being compelled to sell the lands due to the perpetual loss in farming and because of the way it is continuously being the farming of loss.
If the agriculture is not reformed then it will pose a big hindrance in the way of industrial development because industries are dependent on farming and labors for raw materials.
although the development of agriculture in the country is unbalanced because of which small farmers produce less and later escape from it.
The problem of incessantly increasing population also adds to these problems.
Because of this the escape rate among farmers has increased.
The result of these things in agriculture is that the difference between farmers and corporate professionals increases.
The foundation of India-America knowledge was initiated in 2005 when Dr. Manmohan Singh and George Bush had signed the Agriculture technology agreement.
While addressing both the houses of American Parliament during his America visit Dr. Manmohan singh said that in India green revolution helped many people get rid of poverty: I am glad to say that me and President Bush have decided to initiate the second phase of India-America assistance in the field of agriculture.
After the agreement , a team of agriculture scientists from India went to America on December , 2005 to determine the methods of the implementation of this program.
Indo-America knowledge initiative in the field of agriculture has been started at such a time when Indian agriculture is undergoing tough times.
Under this initiative there is technology transfer arrangement for Indian agriculture sector therefore it is absolutely important for India: one thing which nobody is realizing is that how will this modern American technology be used in a country like India where 80 % of its population is somehow leading life.
The complete weft of second green revolution is weaved near the benefits of American agriculture trade.
The multinational companies -LRB- and Indian agricultural research council also -RRB- who are are planning to give new technologies are so ultra modern that farmers at large will not be able to get its benefit.
Although the council has publicly said that from earning farming it is leading towards contract farming but the truth is that no effective debate is held in this country on the socio-economic and political price on earning through farming.
The average income of a farmer in 1993 was just Rupees 211.
In other words if we assume that there are five members in a farming family then 99 % of the farmers fall in the category of poor and weak class.
And the most surprising thing is that during the last few years the real income of marginal labors has fallen down even from the minimum wages of daily workers.
Is it not the time that the farmers also get a fixed amount of money every month for his h e ?
Altogether he is producing economic resources for the country and he needs sufficient compensation.
There is only one way of economic stability in agricultural sector , that is the boundaries of sixth pay commission should be increased and either the farmers should be included in it or a separate salary commission should be framed for them.
The minimum land should be made the basis and production should be ignored.
On one side there are those people who have a romantic notion of villages where everything is going perfectly well.
They do not want this scene to change.
From the old kind of naxalites to the new kinds of NGOs everyone is saying the same thing.
Posters , booklets , songs , processions , demonstrations are being led by them.
Opposition is itself a big trade.
They can not see that the income is perpetually decreasing from agriculture.
Raising the lifestyle though farming is very far , it is even difficult to keep it safe.
They are unable to see that the world that today's generation of farmers are facing does not have romantic kind of villages but market circulated trade.
On the extreme there are people who assume that the government should only be the agent of bureaucrats and industrialists.
If TATA wants land , the government should get it.
If any industrialist of Indonesia needs a place the government should get it.
Giving lands might be the responsibility of the the government but it is whose responsibility to set proper conditions.
The industrialists are not doing any work of donation.
They are asking for land to set up factories.
The rate of land that the industrialists procure reach skies in few years only.
The farmers are not benefitted from it.
It is necessary to make the farmers understand that how giving land would be a profitable deal for t m ?
Therefore some creative suggestions should be thought.
People have started moving to other sectors leaving farming.
According to a survey 57 % of people want to get rid of farming.
Will it be fair to let anyone die taking away their unproductive land or taking advantage of urbanization.
People are trying other elective everywhere.
Therefore adopting special economic region as an elective won't be inappropriate.
While building sage millions of youngsters will get job in non agricultural sector.
The villagers can choose a better job in cities by selling their unproductive land for sage.
Seeing the plight of farming and increasing problems of farmers national farmers commission has made many significant recommendations.
But the question is that up to which extent will the government implement them.
The commission had given its first report in April this year.
Now it has given even the fifth that is the final report to the central agriculture ministry.
The commission was established during the regime of previous government.
With much enthusiasm the UPA government reorganized it in 2004 under the chairmanship of popular scientist M. S. Swaminathan and the responsibility of framing its strategic format to save the interest of the farmers was assigned.
But the draft of national farmer commission consists of many such suggestions which can prove to be difficult for the government.
During 1994-95 the annual consumption of cereals was 180 kg which reduced to 176.5 kgs in 2001.
The affluent people get 2100 to 2636 calories of diet while the diet of poor has reduced to 1890 calories.
According to the planning commission 23.62 of the people live below the poverty line in urban population while in rural areas it is just 27.09%.
All the claims of economic progress of a country are false whose 27 crore population can not even fulfill four square meal.
Therefore the government should keep a sharp eye on the agricultural production and marketing of India.
It is the duty of the state to provide everyone with healthy diet therefore it needs to maintain a balance between the profitable price of farmer's produce and supply of cereals according to the buying capacity of the poor.
There are many government schemes that are based on food grains such as Rashan Card , midday meal for poor children , employment guarantee scheme etc.
Because of this the government has to buy cereals - There are a total of 11 states in the country where abundance of paddy and wheat are produced and the food corporation buys cereals from these states.
The rest of the states are deficit states.
For the past three years the production of wheat has stuck to 7 crore metric tonnes.
In the new world arrangement it is not only mandatory for the farmers to buy seeds from the multinational companies but it is also a reason behind their plight.
If Reliance buys the apples of Himachal , the farmers will be benefitted from this , the intermediaries will end but will it benefit the common n ?
The apples of Himachal are popular among common people since it is relatively cheaper than the apples of Kashmir.
After the purchase of reliance won't these apples be expensive and beyond the reach of common peo e ?
Undoubtedly it is the responsibility of the government to keep an eye on this but its role as a manager now is not satisfying.
It is remarkable that WTO is such an organization of the countries of the world which believes in making trade and commerce intuitive and easy.
Though WTO became effective since 1st January ,1995 but in reality it came into existence in the year 1947 by the signatories of " a multilateral trade system , General agreement on tariff and trade -LRB- GATT -RRB- through the Urugway round of trade negotiations.
GATT negotiations were limited to tariff reductions for the trade and reach of commodities to market.
The members of WTO countries started Doha round trade negotiation in 2001 for subsidies tariff reductions , other obstacles of trade and encouraging economy of developing countries.
This negotiation has to end in the year 2004 but the various governments of member countries could not adhere to this time limit.
Consequently this talk kept moving forward and in December , 2005 in Hong Kong a decision was taken in WTO meeting that a new agreement in the tariff reduction of agriculture and commodities trade.
If we evaluate the profits of developing countries under WTO we see that the developing countries of the world are hardly getting any significant benefit.
Majority of the developing countries have now remained pure cereal importer.
Their livelihood related to farming has suffered severe loss.
In India he had reviewed the Urugway round of GATT negotiations as a major economist of World Bank , since then he has found that both the agenda and consequences of WTO are against developing countries.
The developing countries can not be dumb for not seeing concrete benefits from WTO system , they should proceed on the path of open market agreements -LRB- FTA -RRB-.
Currently there are more than 400 FTA in the world.
Now it is necessary for the organizations like G-20 to warn developed countries like America and European organizations for the benefit of developing countries including India is if at all the right of the developing countries regarding lowering the tax on industrial products under WTO are violated , then all kinds of talks related to the work list of Doha talk shall be stopped.
It is remarkable that with the vision of making world a global village WTO , is such a world organization which aims to make trade and commerce intuitive and easy.
Though WTO became effective since 1st January , 1995 but in reality it came into existence in the year 1947 by the signatories of " a multilateral trade system , General agreement on tariff and trade -LRB- GATT -RRB- through the Urugway round of trade negotiations.
While GATT negotiations were restricted to tariff reductions for the trade and reach of goods to the market , while WTO seems to move ahead and make efforts for the effectiveness of world trade rules and make agricultural services and talks more extensive.
Till now the developing countries were putting huge taxes on the import of industrial products and services while these taxes are less on agricultural goods.
In the Doha round , the developed countries asked the developing countries that if they reduce the import tax on industrial produce and services , the developed countries would reduce the import tax on agricultural goods in their countries.
Agriculture is your strength and you will get big market for agricultural produce with this , while we will get open market for industrial produce and services.
The developed countries are persistently emphasizing that the developing countries should curtail the tax on non agricultural products , in short it is called non agricultural market exchange.
For the Delhi World trade , negotiations between G4 countries has started.
Once again tug of war between the rich and the poor countries has started.
There are disagreements on the issue of giving concessions in agricultural sector between developing and developed countries.
While the developing countries want the developed countries to reduce the farm subsidies being given to their farmers so that the goods of developing countries could be sold in developed countries , while developed countries want to get more and more market of developing countries.
During Kankun World trade meeting in 2003 , the then commerce minister of India , arun Jaitley announced that he will not be ready for any agreement until farm subsidy being given to rich countries persists.
But while reaching the last phase -LRB- which was finally unsuccessful due to the boycott of African countries -RRB- of the talk India compromised for many inappropriate agreements.
Kamalnath is also walking on the footprints of his antecedent.
After wrapping up the July 2004 framework hastily , in which rich countries were allowed to increase their agricultural assistance, Kamalnath was against reconsidering the agreement because it only contained the issues of the development of developed countries.
Right before the ministerial level meeting organized in Hong Kong in 2005 , Kamalnath had announced that there will not be any real reduction in the agriculture subsidy through proposal put by America.
It will be a real curtailment when the amount of government treasure that America gets will reduce.
For stable agricultural development small farmers are needed , rather it can be said that a secure stable development for a longer from the point of view of environment time without small farmers is not possible.
The big farm agriculture done with the help of machines is able to give more produce in less time but it fails to maintain the fertility of soil.
The development of agriculture in human civilization was basically done by small farmers.
Generations after generations they ploughed a land to maintain the fertility of the soil.
It is very essential that the small farmers get stronger role in farmer organizations , if it does not happens then the small farmers can also begin new farmer organizations.
There should be mutual co-ordination between small farmer organizations of various countries so that they strengthen their voices against world level unjust agriculture , food grain , trade policies and rules and regulations.
It is unfortunate that until now both capitalist and communist systems have been doing injustice to small farmers.
In Tissue culture laboratory the the plants are grown in totally controlled environment.
Before building this laboratory one should determine the shape and size of professional and research laboratory.
Further it should also be determined that how many plants can be prepared with this laboratory.
Generally research and professional laboratories are similar.
Generally the place with less fluctuation in temperature and moderate climate is chosen for the establishment of laboratory.
In such situations hilly and valley areas are suitable.
Further electricity arrangements should be primarily taken care of.
The place where adequate electricity is available at cheaper rate should be preferred.
Tissue growth section is the major section of laboratory.
The size and shape of this section depends upon the growth of the plants.
The floor and walls of simple growth section should have tiles.
In this section , there should be facility of moving laminar flow and nutritive medium and grown medium to growth section.
Further the roof of the section should have two ultraviolet tube light.
Generally nutritive medium section is made in the middle of the laboratory.
This section should be bigger than tissue growth section and growth section so that adequate space is there to build growth medium.
There should be a wooden table with granite top where the growth medium making work could be safely done.
There should be arrangements for cupboards on the walls of the section where chemicals could be kept.
pH meter : The acidity and the alkalinity of the nutritive medium could be examined and brought to a fixed pH.
Refrigerator : It is helpful in saving heat sensitive chemical and growth hormone while preparing growth medium.
Two refrigerators should be used as per the requirement.
Electronic balance : This weighing machine is primarily used to weigh such chemical which are used in micro amounts.
This section is primarily used in professional laboratory.
This section should be built in the last part of the laboratory adjoining the nutritive medium section of laboratory building.
The size of this section should be kept smaller than the above mentioned three sections.
The roof of this section should have two ultra violet , 3 feet long tube lights.
There should be medium light according to the requirement.
This section should have two air-conditioners which should work automatically after every 15 hours.
Autoclave section is that part of the laboratory where the nutritive medium is made germ free through this equipment.
This part of the section should be built bigger as compared to other sections.
Two-pronged autoclave should be placed in such a way in the section that one part should be towards middle storage and the back portion of the autoclave should open in autoclave section , the middle part should be completely sealed.
There should be a 6 feet long fiber window beside the germ-free section of the laboratory which could be opened and closed.
It is used to make the nutritive vehicle microbe-free and filtration of contaminated nutritive vehicle.
Through the back portion of autoclave , the vehicle is loaded with the help of trolley.
This autoclave can be run through LPG and electricity both.
The filtered vehicle can be directly taken to storage section through the next door.
There has been a significant impact of the recent liberalization of Indian economy on the development of bio-technology industry.
Micro-amplification of plants through tissue culture has proved to be excessive successful and popular medium of economic development.
There has been commercialization of micro-amplification technique at world level , especially in countries with industrial agriculture.
According to the received figures more than 796 commercial companies of the world are associated with such activities that their numbers are persistently increasing.
Approximately 90 crore saplings are annually produced.
Today tissue culture industry is primarily fulfilling the requirements of flower agriculture and garden-agriculture sector.
In fact tissue culture industry is the backbone of flower agriculture and garden agriculture industry.
There is flower consumption , primarily in developed countries and it is mostly dependent on social , economic and cultural factors.
Tissue culture companies are increasing in the world and around 90 crore plants are being produced in this sector.
The potential demand of seeds for agriculture , agriculture-flowers and forestry crops in the world is 160 billion plants every year.
The gross market is 40 billion US$ annually.
There are around 120 registered companies in India but only 30 are available with their products in the market.
The annual production is approximately 5 crores.
The production capacity in tissue culture depends on many factors such as multiplication rate , transfer cycle , efficiency of workers , cost incurred etc.
The cost price could be reduced by developing profitable techniques professionally with persistent research and development.
Micro-amplification is very beneficial in the places where other methods of amplification do not work such as Strawberry or those plants where the production of micro-amplified plant is more than traditional plants like banana and cardamom.
For the multiplication of highly specialized species at large level , with the objective of presenting tissue culture technology , in 1989 the biotechnological department had established two tissue culture pilot machines , TATA energy research Institute , New Delhi -LRB- T.E.R.I. -RRB- and National chemical laboratory , Pune -LRB- N.C..
These two services as national services were established with the prime objective of multiplication through tissue culture of highly specialized forest trees.
Every pilot plant had the capacity to produce 10 million saplings.
The initial figures say that in 95-98 % micro-amplified plants the growth is successful.
The chief objective of running field testing at many places was to study the usefulness of various clones in different agricultural climatic regions.
With the obtained results , best growing highly specialized clones were identified at a particular place.
Tissue cultured plants are seen to have cloning similarity up to 90 % in almost all matters.
The chief objective of various sapling species the field evaluation especially of forest trees is to test genetic integrity of tissue cultured plants.
Acclimation process is a major hindrance from the perspective of special needs concerning various agricultural climatic regions in the multiplicity of forest trees and other plants through tissue culture.
For the effective salvage of these matters the department has given preference to relatively smaller acclimation units fulfilling the requirements in special agricultural meteorological regions.
But six acclimation units have been established in Jodhpur , Hissar , Kolkata , Jammu and Guwahati.
In the beginning the program concentrated on the species of forest trees which later extended to garden agriculture and planting crops.
The study centers roughly 65 species and for approximately 20 species , protocols of complete technology have been standardized.
The domain appraisal of some protocols is still going on and roughly 10 species are being grown successfully at professional level.
The technology industry have been transferred for the professional production of these species through tissue culture.
Though the micro-amplification technique of vegetative propagation was developed through somatic embryo but the plats thus developed could not be acclimatized.
Therefore research on this subject has been stopped.
Amplification protocol for coffee , tea and spices have been developed and there is need to control the biological and non-biological stress of these crops, Also procreation liquid is being listed through molecular sign.
A top priority of the department has been establishment of acclimatization units which fulfill the needs of various agricultural climatic regions.
According to an estimate roughly 300 professional laboratories are functioning in the world.
The production capacity of majority of new laboratories is 2 million plants.
In India roughly 125 micro-amplified laboratories were established out of which 81 laboratories are working and 44 were have been shut.
Roughly 25 laboratories in Maharashtra , 9 in Karnataka , 6 in Andhra Pradesh , 7 in Gujarat and TamilNadu and 4 in Kerala are running.
Small laboratories are running in Uttar Pradesh -LRB- 4 -RRB- , Sikkim , Panjab -LRB- 1 -RRB- , Haryana -LRB- 3 -RRB- and Assam but their production capacity is less.
Roughly 15 laboratories are amplifying only garden crops.
Anthuriam , Kailanthe , Dieffenbachia , Ficus , cardiline , orchid , gerbera are major ornamental plants.
The proper use of agricultural land is an significant aspect of geographical study.
They are primarily concerned with geographical agriculture.
The word land use is automatically clear.
But in the use and the interpretation of the purpose of their options poses many complexes.
It has been considered the best as the word use is small.
According to the natural characteristics of the land , land use is the real and special use of land surface.
Land use study is primarily concerned with the shortfall of vegetation cover.
It is a formal concept in the field of geography.
Land plan is the process of exploitation of land use that is land is applied for a specific theme.
The undeveloped areas by humans are negative from the perspective of land plan.
Testing without coordinating the works of vegetation cover from the point of view of use is considered to be a nonsensical and insignificant practice.
Land use-It is a process.
That is using the land surface through land cover.
The " Land Cover " is used in this text for " Surface cover " elements , whether they are natural or man made.
Land use is the comprehensive meaning of Land-plan.
It includes Land cover.
It would be appropriate to incorporate all kinds of uses in the extensive study of land use.
The surveys of land use should always be noted for the need of experts and also the unaware because land use survey is a n expensive venture and today land use is affects everybody in one form or another.
Using land using different experiments is as ancient is the relationship of agriculture with humans.
Interest was taken in interval estimation of land resources because of the investment in new countries.
In 1919 for the first time maps expressing land use in systematic manner was considered.
Forests have been classified in the form of cluster forests , high forests and clusters.
It includes such forests which do not have any pre planted harvesting whether they are conical , deciduous or mixed forests.
Classifying manipulated pastures from the point of view of land management in the form of agricultural land is appropriate but it as led to some problems in interpretation.
All the grasslands were kept in the same category after the survey done in 1938 in northern Ireland , whether it has changes or best quality pasture is found.
Because of sufficient extension a new category was started for the below mentioned green land.
Though the extension of garden is not significant in great Britain.
Many reports were written to describe every kind of land in Britain.
It was also published in parts during 1936-1946.
Thus the time between beginning regional work and completion of reports seems more.
Gardens are written with pastures and tree-crops are written together.
Because of the problems of grass field all kinds of fodders are kept in the same category.
Some reforms for grass lands with tumor grass or fiber grass have been done.
Global land use survey is a planning prepared by the international geographical union.
Its objective is to prepare land use report and relative map for the entire world.
One of the objectives of land use is to encourage the mapping of world land use on the standard of 1:1,000,000.
The objective of the proposed basic categories limit number was to achieve essential category of comparison in survey and arranging desired subsections for local details.
Though the major classification of nine categories presents numerous problems in the generalization of surveys for rebuilding maps.
The main land use maps of Britain were reduced on 1:625,000 standards to get general conclusion.
At least an area of 100 acres could be shown on this standard.
That is why nearby farms were broken into pieces and their measurement was made as it was before.
It was necessary to have at least 200 acre or 100 hec area to get general conclusion on 1:1,000,000 standards.
so far many countries have prepared land use maps on various standards.
Certainly currently work is going on in these countries on this issue.
There is lack of authenticity because of the association of many officers , different issues and adopting many methods in few national surveys.
The state gives some surveys of national planning on contract to the private companies.
These surveys do not aim at publication.
In the present scenario the extended regions could be surveyed through air photography.
No one raise finger on the significance of land survey for practical works.
There are many examples of its application in physical planning.
An interesting text has been prepared with the work details of Anglo-Polish Geographical Seminar.
It has potential scope from British survey for mapping land use development in a planned economy.
Its very simple scientific objective is to study those methods with which human system uses human environment.
Necessarily it is a geographical study which can only be completed through land use survey.
This survey presents the basis for using geographical environment with more intellect.
It is its more practical significance.
Agriculture geography is still developing.
Few years back it also included previous botanical science especially Phytosocilogy.
Thus Polish survey majorly views the objective of land use survey and region.
It clarifies the meanings of words like land cover and land use -LRB- with what meaning they are used here -RRB-.
It also clarifies the figures of the background and also the shapes of the farms.
Generally such figures are presented using various maps.
It is essential for them to be like glass coverings.
In order to explain the interrelationships with ease they should be used with coverings such as physical conditions , transportation capacity and outlay.
Presenting such details on basic land use maps has been predefined purpose of Poland maps so that practical planning could be helped.
In land use maps it is essential to emphasize the association of presented product with actual illustration.
Since land use map marks the land use of any time , basically they can not do anything other than drawing general picture of land views.
Since grass is grown in a field for an year , cereals can be grown in it the next year therefore the map becomes untimely before publication.
The failure of land use comes up because of not understanding such maps.
This technique is criticized on this basis.
Interchange of crops in any of the seasons expresses Rotation and this interchange compensates this shortcoming because of the thus changes in other farms.
The stability patterns of technologically changing countries like great Britain could be explained in comparison to maps of various dates.
Thus a single land use map can be assumed to be a authentic document for many years.
The duration of its authenticity depends on the nature and rate of change.
The meaning of recording physical beauty is that there is no such signal in the land use map which proves whether land use is according to its quality or not.
Some specific cases could be its exceptions such as fluctuation relation.
Using yellow color to show the non arable land and rugged pasture in highlands of Scotland expresses that satisfying land use is found at 3000 feet height.
Soil is not the only physical component in the fertility of soil.
Many plans of land outlook classification for estimating the means of land have been developed.
The objective of classifying land outlook is to propose the potentiality of productivity or non-productivity of every tested land section.
Such a separation could be to determine that the particular land area is used for less dense grassland and it should be left for reforestation planning , reformed cultivation or it should be left undeveloped.
While as a demonstrator it clarifies whether that land area should be conserved for present use or permission should be allowed to construct a building there.
It is prepared for reforestation agricultural development or a species of a tree or crop.
Land outlook classification is an example presented by United Nations soil Conservation which is primarily based on erosion hazards.
Its objective is qualitative proposition of land for agriculture and separator conservation.
It has accepted eight categories within it.
Its primary category is " appropriate land for farming ".
Land appropriate for farming.
First category - excellent land , which is plowed through simple agricultural methods in intact form.
Second Category - Such land which is plowed with limited precaution in intact form.
Third Category-Under the third kind of land there are restrictions in use but they can be plowed regularly by keeping precaution in soil erosion crisis.
Fourth Category - such land which is used in too harsh restricted methods.
The farms can be restricted to relevant crops by keeping strict monitoring.
It needs crop rotation in five-six years.
Further sowing grain or uncerne is often practical.
Fifth category - the fifth category consists of such land which is roughly plain but because of wetness , gravels and other reasons agriculture was not possible on it.
Because of some restrictions forest arrangement and grazing is not possible in such a land.
Sixth Category-This category consists of such land which is dry , rugged and wet or which is unfit for farming.
Such kind of land can be plowed most adequately for establishing grassland.
Tree crops can be sown in few lands.
Seventh category - Pasture or forest system under harsh restrictions or strict erosion crisis is the characteristic of this land use.
In this category erosion rate is more fast as compared to the fourth category because of withering of cover.
Because of conservation purpose , forest system is preferred over pasture.
Eighth category - This land is considered inappropriate for forest system pasture and farming.
It consists of swamps , rugged land , deserts and high hills.
This land is useful only for wild animals , recreation and water course if proper watershed measures are taken.
The significance of such classification is seen where soil erosion and other crisis limit agriculture.
For comprehensive planning of land use it is essential to use a separate factor deduced from the major factors of environment.
A land use classification planning generally tries to express natural qualities hidden in land.
Regarding soil it can be assumed that while determining the potential value of land physical elements of soil are more helpful as compared to the chemical elements.
The nutritional status of soil can be completely artificial which means it depends on the management system and use of manures.
If depth , water , formation , drainage etc. characteristics are satisfying then the nutritional status of such land which is inborn worst can be built up.
The land productivity lowers because of specific soil status or bad impact of one or more factors of soil.
While determining the classification system for land use in tropical area one should note that they have opposite conditions as compared to temperate area.
Land classification in temperate zone has developed a lot.
The methods used in temperate lands could guide the surveyors in tropical land as simple principles.
Some factors have completely different impact there.
For example progress in height in temperate regions generally has bad impact.
While in tropical regions it is beneficial.
Definitely vegetation climate and soil are popular as significant indicator.
If one knows about the habitat factors of vegetation species and its associates then it can be used in a simple way.
While estimating the soil fertility in temperate regions physical characteristics are more significant as compared to chemical status.
Nitrogen , phosphate potash and lime can be regularly supplied in large amounts to commercial crops.
From economic perspective doing this is possible because profitable commodity region for commercial farming is available there.
It is known through various sources that there has been steep depreciation in the fertility of tropical soil under cultivation.
The depreciation is especially fast in wet forests.
There was biennial regular crop rotation of maize and cassava in Ghana for eight years.
It was undertaken in the absence of impact of fertilizers.
After the fourth cycle of the produce of both the crop rotation , the mature accessories were removed.
It is estimated that in the serial order in Malaya , the rice land produces 1500-200 , 1200 and 820 pounds of paddy.
The benefit of manure used in farms is only for few months while in temperate regions it yields benefit for roughly three years.
Therefore the practical classification of tropical lands should have class differences.
Goru has written that if the composition of soil is appropriate then tropical cultivation can fulfill its requirements through bad soil only.
By that he meant to say that the soil composition is completely in powder form there.
It is such a general conclusion which can not be completely applicable to all tropical plants but it should follow the criteria of classification.
It is difficult to bring artificial changes in the soil for a longer time later.
But it is related to the age and maturity of soil.
Goru has mentioned that very special high quality soils are riverine alluvium.
They are extremely new accumulation.
They flow and come from those regions where there is no tropical season corrosion.
Reform-able land should be kept away from such land where there is no scope of reform.
Laterite and such soils in which laterite elements are not so developed should be considered worst.
Because of the availability of water crops grow in the coastal strip of sterile sand.
But it has been accepted that the development of forest resources pasture cultivation will take time.
Other forms of production should be developed during this time.
It is essential to do this keeping the needs of economic condition in mind.
It has been suggested that for a decade or two rice lime septal fruit , fruits and for cocoa production special efforts should be undertaken.
They are sold in regions of export to get financial aid for a longer time.
Certainly the land shouldn't be badly used intentionally for saving time.
For such problems used soils under systematic pasture would be more productive.
For the development of this region it has been suggested that for the long time planning of this area one should concentrate on the cattle rearing and it is clarified with examples of land scope mapping.
Though the farmers will require seed sowing concerning directions while sowing seeds.
For this commodity systems are also required here then only self confidence among the farmers regarding the future of this industry could be activated.
But the instantaneous need of this place is of a reliable cash crop which shouldn't get more significance except executor crop in the economy of this region.
Planting high terrestrial rice has been recommended to achieve the target in this region.
There is a region in south where there was profit in the production of banana and pineapple but they could not achieve regular commodity sector.
Marshy rice is grown near the coastal pit of Varanako.
Attention should be paid to the scope of building grassland for cattle rearing in this sector.
The export of acrobat , cattle wealth and rice will be easy with the building of pier for ships.
Attention should be paid on the production of such crops where there is less loss in transportation.
The potential rice land could be more productive there.
The authentic produce clarifies the average produce in the remote and well developed soil areas of United Nations where paddy are the major produce.
According to the local significance of every crop , the simple percentage weighting equal to the production section crop gradation could be deduced.
Such soils whose average weight is between 100-90 are kept in section 1 , those between 90-80 are kept in section 2 and accordingly.
The Storie Index is an estimation method.
This method is used in United Nations and other countries.
This method depends upon the soil quality.
The major characteristics of quality are determined in three factors.
One of those factors is surface formation.
Everything is quoted in the form of estimated percentage of optimum conditions of that plant's growth.
Now it is assumed in Soviet union that for high production from the state and collective farms it is essential to pay attention on the produce of various land classes and outlays.
The lands are classified together with various kinds of land on the basis of similarity in different classes but distinction in fertility and work ability.
Agriculture is divided into two classes on the basis of supply of arable land.
Dense farming - Such kinds of farming are found in those lands where there is less extension of arable land and the population density is more.
Because of the high pressure of population in these areas the per person arable land is very less.
With the help of dense plowing , sufficient irrigation facility , investment , labor , high supply of fertilizers and scientific equipment more than one crop can be grown in a year and efforts are undertaken to increase per hectare production.
Crop rotation , high quality seeds , insecticide etc. are arranged to get achieve more production.
These regions have small farms and emphasis is laid on production of food grains with which more and more people are sustained.
These areas with dense cultivation are populated since ancient times and with centuries of experiments the farmers have developed this dense cultivation technique and land use.
These areas are centers of rivers-valleys and more rich population.
Because of more population there is abundance of cheap labor.
Therefore farmers have adopted dense cultivation.
Rice is the major crop in such cultivation which is grown twice or thrice a year in some areas.
extensive farming is found in those land areas where there are more lands or density population is relatively low.
The objectives of farmers in these areas are obtaining more and more production from the big farms.
The production of crops in these extended cultivation regions is done from the perspective of trade.
The specialization of crops takes place on farms.
Two or three crops could be grown in an year for sustenance where only a single crop dominated an extensive cultivated area.
The scarcity of labor is fulfilled through machines.
Extensive cultivation is popular in the remote areas of Russia -LRB- Stapis -RRB- , Prairie -LRB- Canada -RRB- , southern and middle United states of America and Pampas -LRB- Argentina -RRB-.
Wheat is a major crop which is sown in winter or spring season.
Wet cultivation - wet cultivation areas are those where there is 200 cm or more rains.
The moisture supply of the plants is fulfilled by rain.
Rice leads in wet cultivation.
In this method there is water logging in farms for several months.
Because of the abundance of humidity three crops of rice are obtained round the year -LRB- Aman , Aas and Boro -RRB-.
In such cultivated areas , the highest raining areas of Asia are accumulated where east India , Bangladesh and Srilanka are leading.
There is more and more reliability in the production of crops.
Majority of the areas in Europe , America and Asia are concerned with wet cultivation.
Cultivated area capable of irrigation.
Those areas where there is low rainfall need more irrigation such as monsoon and tropical region.
Because of season and unreliable rains irrigation occupies a significant position in the cultivation of these areas.
The places where there is low rainfall or it is limited to a specific season , the temperature is appropriate for cultivation round the year.
Therefore irrigation is essential and obligatory for more production.
Irrigation is also done through ponds , wells , rivers and canals.
Tube wells are also used for irrigation.
The development of irrigation is highest in India and China.
There is tradition of irrigated cultivation in countries like United States of America , Turkey , Mediterranean region and Russia etc.
cultivation with scarce rainfall.
It refers to that cultivation where rainfall is less than 50 centimeter and means of irrigation are not available.
This method first came into existence in Great Basin of USA , Columbia Basin and Snake river Basin.
Under this technique the farms are plowed deep -LRB- 20-25 cm.
So that the rainfall gets absorbed in soil and there is less depreciation of moisture through vaporization.
Therefore the crops of dry cultivation are dependent on moisture present in the soil.
For moisture large beds are build to regulate the flow of rainwater.
Thus Jetzold , 1979 calls it water concentrating culture.
The crops which could resist dryness , got prepared soon and could save themselves from harmful insects are planted in this area.
The soil is made moist with the help of manures and fertilizers.
Wheat is the most appropriate crop for this area.
Apart from wheat mustard , barley and oat are also produced.
Millet , sorghum , barley , chickpea are the major crops of dry cultivation areas of India.
single crop cultivation refers to producing a single crop from the land in a year.
This cultivation is carried in big gardens.
The single crop cultivation in that particular area is helped by economic , physical and other factors of agricultural development.
Though appropriate conditions are not salient for a single crop but from the perspective of management , labor and market the garden of a single crop are found in abundance.
Two crops obtained from a single region is known as twin crop cultivation.
Densely populated regions with appropriate physical condition have twin crop area.
Winter and summer -LRB- Rabi and Kharif -RRB- crops are found in the river built plains of south east Asia.
Multi crop cultivation - This kind of cultivation is carried in those land areas where more than two crops are harvested in a year.
Multi crop cultivation is possible in developed and dense cultivation areas.
This kind of cultivation requires high quality fertilizer , seeds , irrigation facility , crop rotation , appropriate climate and mechanics.
Such kind of cultivation is popular in many parts of India , China and United States of America.
Commercial cultivation - Such kind of cultivation is the gift of modern development.
The physical conditions are most favorable if a single crop is grown at a large level at the place of growing multiple crops in commercial cultivation in travel and transportation resources as a result of knowledge expansion of science and technology.
Majority of the produced product is exported.
Commercial cultivation is the collective form of extensive , dense and mixed cultivation.
Crop production and cattle rearing are parallely carried in mixed cultivation.
Because of the lack of human labor there is greater use of machines in cultivation.
Such kind of cultivation is found in the inner parts of northern hemisphere and coastal parts of southern hemisphere where USA and Prairie -LRB- Canada -RRB- , Ukraine and Ural regions are famous for commercial cultivation.
Further such cultivation is found in the valleys of Parana-Paraguay in south America and Mare - Darling in Australia.
Plantation cultivation - This technique of cultivation is special and relatively new which began in tropical and subtropical regions of southern hemisphere.
Broadly the characteristics of plantation cultivation is prominence of a crop , special cultivation method -LRB- plantation and seed sowing -RRB-.
Under this big gardens of tea , coconut , cocoa , sugarcane , cassava , spices , banana , rubber , etc. are planted.
All the crops in this kind of cultivation is such that their industrial amendment is essential.
Industrial places are established near the gardens for economic benefits.
The entire production of such gardens are exported to temperate countries where there is high demand for them.
Traditional cultivation - Such kind of cultivation is especially popular in 5 degree-10 degree latitude in Congo Basin -LRB- Middle Africa -RRB- , Amazon Basin -LRB- South america -RRB- , south east Asia and highlands of eastern islands.
It is also known as migratory cultivation , shifting cultivation and Jhooming cultivation.
First of all for the preparation of farm , remote areas of forest are chosen and burnt.
Human labor is mostly used in cultivation.
Fertilizers and investment is not used.
Agriculture work is possible only for two years after which another farms are prepared leaving the previous one, Because rate of soil erosion is more due to more rainfall and soil fertility soon becomes poor.
There is less production in this kind of agriculture , labor is more and the use of produced goods is local.
Only food grains are produced where maize , paddy , sorghum and millet are major.
Agriculture has a great contribution in the economy of the country.
Currently the agricultural share of economy of the country is continuously decreasing.
According to an estimation the total GDP of agriculture in the country in the year 1998-99 ,1999 -2000 , 2000-01 was 6.3 , 6.1 , 4.0 and 5.4 % respectively.
It is clear that despite the large contribution of of agriculture in national economy , it is gradually decreasing.
The significance of agriculture in our country could be understood in the fact that it supplies raw materials to Indian industries.
The major industries of the country are dependent only on cultivation.
Majority of the raw material for non agriculture sector is obtained from agricultural sector.
Jute , cotton clothes , sugar , vegetables etc are directly and many other industries are indirectly dependent on agriculture.
Because of the population expansion in our country four square meal has become a basic need.
This requirement could only be fulfilled by agriculture.
Animal is the priceless asset of Indian farmers.
The accomplishment of agricultural tasks in the lack of animals is not possible.
Cattle and agriculture complement each other.
Our country has the highest number of cattle.
Agriculture has the biggest contribution in Indian economy.
The progress of the country mostly depends on the progress of agriculture.
Its main reason is that agriculture provides raw materials to major industries.
If the agricultural production increases then the industries will get more raw materials which will lead to its development.
If the agricultural production will increase , the income of farmers will increase and when their income will increase their buying capacity will increase.
Agriculture is significant in obtaining royality.
The production affects transportation , marketing , & other aspects and the use has deep impact on the economic system of the country.
The central government earns by export and the state governments earns through tax on revenue , irrigation and agricultural asset etc.
Agriculture is the basis of livelihood of more than half population of the country.
64 % share of the total working population of the country gets its livelihood from agriculture.
Characteristic of food grain crops - 64 % share of the total agricultural land of the country is used in the production of crops.
Scarcity in production-India does not produce as much produce in agriculture as it should produce.
It is low both from hectare and per labor perspective.
According to the received figures the average wheat production of India in a unit area is 1 th of England and 1 of France and east & west Germany.
India occupies the 17th position in the world in rice production sector.
It has been 53 years of management for India but still there is much dependence on monsoon.
Because of the irregularity , uncertainty and insufficiency of rains Indian cultivation is also known as the gamble of monsoon.
Still 33.3 % of the total agricultural land is irrigated , the rest 66.7 % is dependent on monsoon.
As a means of livelihood - Majority of our farmers do not cultivate from commercial point of view but it is a means of earning their livelihood.
Labor dominance - Labor has dominance in comparison to investment in Indian agriculture.
Because of small holdings the farmer is unable to fully use the investments and agricultural equippments.
First five year plan and agriculture - First five year plan in our country was introduced on 1st April , 1951.
The prime objective of this scheme was to develop agriculture.
Two reasons were primarily responsible for this - Because of the partition of the country there was bad impact on commercial crops like food grains , jute and cotton.
It was felt that total development of agriculture is essential for industrial progress.
During the scheme there were three major characteristics concerning agricultural planning which are.
Long term schemes were emphasized.
The objective of the scheme was not only increasing agricultural production but the overall village lifestyle development.
The work of organizing agriculture schemes and managing irrigation and concerned means were completely given to the state governments.
The responsibility of the central government was to establish coordination in schemes run by various state governments.
Second five year plan and agriculture - The second five year plan began in 1956.
Under this the development of industries were given preference yet the significance of increasing agricultural production was not lowered.
From the perspective of agricultural planning this scheme had following characteristics.
Agricultural planning should be done in such a way that the increasing population should get food grains with it and the industries should get raw materials.
The agricultural production should be diversified which means attention should be paid in increasing commercial crops along with cereals.
Agricultural production should be increased with skillful means and advanced techniques.
Third five year plan and agriculture - Under the third five year plan agricultural development was made the major objective.
Fourth five year plan and agriculture - Agricultural development has been given priority in this five year plan.
Not only this in the fourth plan emphasis was laid on the development of those industries also which provide agricultural inputs , fertilizers etc.
Fifth five year plan and agriculture - In this five year plan the development of agriculture got adequate significance and every year a goal of 4.67 % growth was set in agricultural sector.
In the sixth five year plan the following steps for agricultural science were primarily taken.
Dry land farming - During 1970-71 dry land agricultural development program was initiated.
In the sixth plan special emphasis was laid on increasing agricultural production under this program.
Research in agricultural education - There should be a coordination between agricultural development departments and agricultural universities.
The agricultural universities will have to play a significant role in the form of essential systematic research from the perspective of stable production and desirable development in agriculture.
Use of fertilizers - The use of chemical fertilizers were given more significance so that there could be fast growth in agricultural production.
Eighth five year plan and agriculture - This five year plan was related to agricultural planning.
There was a provision of spending 22,467 billion rupees in the development of agriculture.
Here 34,425 billion rupees on rural development , 6750 billion rupees on special region program , 35,525 billion rupees on irrigation and flood control program were spent.
Thus 22.2 % share of the expenditure was for agricultural development programs.
The main objective of this scheme was increase in export with self dependence in cereals and diversification of agricultural production.
Ninth five year plan and agriculture - Under this plan the agricultural development program was based on the " Food security " policy declared by the government whose prime objective was to double the agricultural development with which India could be freed from " hunger " in the next 10 years.
In the ninth five year plan the rate of agricultural development was set 4.5%.
There were suggestions also for the upliftment of marginal and small farmers.
Special emphasis was also laid on infrastructure and irrigation.
Regional programs were run for the development of hilly backward and tribal regions.
Remedies to improve agricultural credit were also told.
Suggestions concerning the export of agricultural development and promoting cooperation in the development of agricultural sectors such as gardening , fisheries , cattle rearing and dairy were also given.
Tenth five year plan and agriculture - During this plan there was a provision of spending 58,933 billion rupees on agriculture and other related areas.
For the development of agriculture under this scheme there will be more public investment in irrigation , seeds , power and streets.
But the economic assistance given on fertilizers , water and power would be lowered.
The canal system would be kept properly.
The minimum support price of food grains and other products would be co-ordinated in such a way that diversification in agriculture and environment related security gets encouragement and Food grains grant is lowered.
The 76 % share of the arable land is with the marginal farmers in our country.
Further the small farmers have very less arable land.
They earn their livelihood only with agriculture.
Agriculture is such a job which is entirely dependent on nature.
Farmer becomes helpless during natural calamities such as flood , drought etc.
Mostly small and marginal farmers are suffering due to the incessant increase in the price of diesel , fertilizers and agricultural equipment and accidental natural calamities but their problems have not changed much from the past few decades.
If we have to increase agricultural production in a right direction then we have to pay special attention on agricultural problems.
The wheat production in our country in the year 2001-02 was 731 million tonnes.
Uttar Pradesh is the first state of the country to have highest wheat production.
Punjab and Haryana come sequentially after it.
Only few states are there in India to have more agricultural production.
Because of the following reasons agricultural production is les.
Majority of the farmers in our country are less educated and they have a traditional perspective towards religion , caste etc. because of which they are afraid of adopting modern techniques.
There are two major problems of agriculture in our country.
The first is that population load on agriculture should be lowered and people should be engaged in some other industries other than farming.
Majority of the farmers in India are poor.
Further because of spending more time in agricultural production , ill-effects of divine outbreaks on agriculture and seasonal employment of agriculture they could not get finance in adequate amount.
The lack of finance affects agriculture and reduces production.
Some institutional causes are also found which are responsible in bringing reduction in agricultural production.
Because of the small land holdings the per hectare production of agriculture is very low.
The size of average land holdings in our country is 1.51 hectare while in other countries such as in Australia it is even less than 188 hectare and 32 % holdings are within 1-4 hectare.
Agricultural production has also reduced because of some major techniques.
It is a truth that a crop could not be grown properly on a land without water.
That is why agricultural production gets affected because of lack of irrigation facilities.
Only 33.3 % share of the arable land in our country is irrigated , the rest 66.7 % share is unirrigated and dependent on monsoons , that is why there is reduction in production.
One major reason behind the low agricultural production in our country is inability to protect the crops from insects and diseases.
16 % share of some cereals gets spoilt by insects every year.
The significant reason of reduction in agricultural production India is that because of the less availability of high quality seeds in our country , our farmers are unable to utilize it properly.
Secondly , because of the orthodox belief of the Indian farmers they make less use of good and useful chemical fertilizers.
Our country is also making less use of chemical fertilizers.
The agricultural production of the country gets lowered also because of natural reasons.
Indian agriculture is dependent on nature especially on rains , rains are uncertain , untimely and uncommon which affects production.
Because of excess rainfall the fertile soil of the farm gets washed away into rivers which reduces the fertility of the land.
Consequently agricultural production gets affected.
There are some defects in Indian soil which reduces its productivity.
Defects like lack of nitrogen , excision of land , water logging and excess wasteland are found in the soil of our country.
There is special significance of irrigation and multipurpose river valley projects in a agriculture dominant country like India.
Agricultural development is only possible in a place which has favorable environment fir it such as soil , climate and rain according to the requirement.
Irrigation is an important factor in agriculture.
Providing water through artificial means is known as irrigation in agriculture.
Rains in India is through monsoon winds.
Amount , timings and place of rains are all uncertain.
Thus agricultural progress on the basis of rains is not possible.
In a country like India where the entire economy is dependent on agriculture.
Irrigation means have special significance at such such places.
Indian central government has formed some major organizations for the development of water means.
National water development council - It was established in July , 1982.
Its work is to determine the scope of utilization of water by aligning rivers.
So that water reaches the deficit areas from the surplus areas.
National water board - The board established in 1985 is a technological institution for calculating the growth of water means.
The work of this council is to make schemes regarding use of water resources , their conservation and control and to co-ordinate and develop those schemes.
It thinks and gives suggestions to the state governments for flood control , irrigation and shipping.
National Underground water board - This board was established in 1952 but it was reorganized with geological survey of underground water unit of India in 1972.
The work of this board is to do surveys concerning underground water , determining the possibilities , evaluation and monitoring the quality and method of underground water.
This board prepares the policies , strategies and programs related to the development of underground water in the entire country.
The major means of agriculture in India are canals , the large northern plains are irrigated using canals.
Uttar Pradesh , Punjab and Haryana are major regions where irrigation is done using canals.
There is a network of irrigation using canals in these states.
Apart from them some parts of Bihar , Rajasthan and West Bengal are irrigated using canals.
Some irrigation through canals are also done in delta regions of south India and river valleys.
Our country basically has two kinds of canals.
Flood canals and twelve months canal - The flood canals have water only during rainy season and the twelve months canals have water throughout the year.
The number of twelve months canals is greater in India.
There are following benefits from irrigation through canals.
It takes away the extra water of floods.
Agriculture becomes possible in dry areas.
It is the permanent system of irrigation.
It increases the fertility of soil.
It presents sooner and cheaper rates of irrigation on plains.
Transportation facility could be obtained.
The fear of famine ends.
The following are the harms of irrigation using canals.
Malaria spreads in the canal areas.
Farmers have dispute over canal water.
The nearby areas get flooded when the canals break.
They do not get required and regular water.
Wells have been used for irrigation in India since ancient times and today also it is the popular means of irrigation.
Wells are primarily of two kinds-surface wells or subsurface wells or tube wells.
The following are its benefit.
The wells could be dug at lost cost.
The fertility of the land increases.
Farmer becomes self dependent in water.
The following are its harm.
The wells also dry with famine.
The cost of digging wells is high at the places where water level is low.
Saline water which is mostly found in wells.
It is harmful for crops.
Tube well irrigation is a significant means of agriculture, Water for irrigation is drawn with electricity.
The following are the benefits of irrigation using tube wells.
Farmers labor is saved and they do not need to keep many cattle.
The tube wells act as complementary at the places where there is less amount of canal water.
Well water is more profitable in comparison to canal water because it contains many elements and chemicals which maintain the fertility of soil.
The recurrent operating expenditure is less here.
It will lead to certain and regular irrigation.
It is appropriate for large scale agriculture.
It is a drawback of agricultural irrigation under tube wells is that it requires excessive finance which a poor farmer could not have done.
Many significant organizations concerning agriculture science and technology have been established.
Which is working on an extensive level for the development of agriculture.
Indian council of agricultural research was formed during the tenure of Lord Irwin -LRB- 1926-1931 -RRB- in the chairmanship of Linlithgo in 1926 by royal agriculture commission.
On the recommendations of the council , " Imperial council of agricultural research " was established on 23rd May , 1929 for the development of agricultural science and technology.
After independence the council was named " Indian council of agricultural research ".
" Indian council of agricultural research " is a leading organization in the field of agricultural science & technological development.
Indian council of agricultural research itself does the work of educating and the applications related to agriculture , cattle rearing , fishery and gives assistance and encouragement for it and also maintains a co-ordination between them.
There is comprehensive contribution of agricultural University in the development of agriculture.
Here research and diagnosis related on agricultural problems are done.
Agricultural University and colleges are extremely important from the perspective of agricultural research.
During 1901-05 agricultural colleges were established in Pune , Kanpur , Sabaur , Nagpur , Coimbatore and Lyallpur -LRB- Pakistan -RRB- in India.
Then after there was a series of agricultural colleges.
On the suggestion of joint Indo-American team first agricultural university was established in India in Pantnagar in 1960.
Then after their number increased.
Now there are a total of 33 state agricultural universities in India and Imphal University is a central agricultural university.
The research work concerning rubber , coffee and tea crops are done by the respective councils.
As a result of green revolution the self dependence that has been achieved in food grains is mainly because of the success in science and technology sector.
Now the farmers of inaccessible areas have also become aware of the benefits of science and technology and new and reformed techniques of agriculture and are also using them.
Agriculture sector has become competent because of the use of modern science and agricultural investments and technology and the dependence of agriculture on monsoons has reduced.
The profound consequences of natural calamities have reduced with the use of new techniques and methods in agricultural works.
There is relatively less amount labor on per unit production because of the impact of science and technology.
It can be said that it has now become possible to have relatively more produce because of equal use of labor.
The other impact of science and technology on agriculture is seen in the form of its capacity to save land.
Any crop or at least more production of few crops could be achieved on a land unit.
This means that now less land is required for a given amount of produce than before.
The third and major impact of science and technology is seen in its capacity to save time.
Now there is a tradition of seeds with relatively less mature duration.
Initially the maturing duration of paddy , wheat , kidney bean , millet , sorghum crops was more because of which it was difficult to take other crops in these farms.
There is a positive impact on agricultural production and productivity and the element of risk has reduced.
There has been inclusion of new agricultural investments and change in crop structure.
Soil is the gift of nature in which significant properties are present.
The crop gets affected by the nitrogen , phosphorous and potash and soluble salts.
The element which lacks in soil.
The level of production can be increased with its extra supply.
Soil test is a significant means in intelligent balanced and skillful use of fertilizers and take adequate benefits from them.
Science and technology has a significant contribution in that regard therefore soil test is a integral element of any scheme of agricultural development.
There are 454 soil testing laboratories in the country out of which 106 are running laboratories.
In India 454 soil testing research institutions have been established at various regions out of which 106 are running research institutions.
Currently science and technology has become an empowered medium of testing ground water source.
This work can be easily done with its use.
The technology of detecting underground water by seeing the figures and pictures sent by satellites has been developed.
The space department have prepared the water science map of the entire country with the help of pictures given by satellites.
Beneficiary and immunity " Genes " could be supplied to the plants with the help of bio-technology.
The plants can be made capable to grow in saline , famine and other severe conditions with the entry of beneficial " genes ".
The structure of genes could be desirable changed through genetic engineering in biotechnology.
Apart from agricultural development they greatly contribute in cattle development.
India has the highest number of cows and buffaloes in the world but their production is very low.
The breed reform work that been undertaken so far.
That has developed great scope of breed reform with exotic species of cattle.
Biotechnology has presented good results in the direction of fetal changes.
It will help is developing the cattle according to the developed countries of the world.
For increasing the production of pulses and coarse grain crops now it is essential to use the scientific research and technology.
Thus the seeds should be developed according to the conditions of various places.
Efforts should also be made to make the dry lands capable of agriculture.
The scientific methods that conserve resources and agricultural inputs should be developed for agricultural development now.
With this more production could be achieved through less agricultural inputs.
There has been undisputed reform in agriculture with the capable use of science and technology.
But one should also pay attention to its negative points.
The inclusion of women in modern technological agricultural works is reducing.
Various agricultural works which were done by the men and women initially are today being done using various kinds of agricultural equippments.
Because of which the men and women laborers are suffering and their work opportunities are getting finished.
The increasing use of various insecticides is also leading to harmful impact.
Some fraction of these insecticides gets absorbed in grains.
It is adversely affecting the human health.
In the contemporary scenario majority of the rural population and families engaged in farming have stood up with cooperation movement.
The co-operative movement has propagated in roughly every village of Gujarat , Maharashtra , Kerala and Tamilnadu.
Though co-operative committees , debts are provided not only for agricultural development but it also provides many other facilities.
The co-operative movement could be made successful by paying attention to below mentioned suggestions.
along with the building and growth of personal funds , management should be emphasized.
Rather than emphasizing on increasing the number of co-operative committees , it is essential to pay attention to the quality aspect of the committees.
Extensive programs on co-operative education and training should be run.
Honest , intellect and hard working leadership should be prepared by getting rid off the feeling of personal interest.
The principles of co-operation should be obeyed strictly and consciously.
Women should be made interested towards movement so that they also fully contribute in the development of co-operation.
Agricultural credit should be primarily given for production and some debt should also be given for unproductive works.
In order to reduce the complexity of co-operation laws there is great need to reevaluate them.
The co-operation movement should be freed from government intervention.
There should be proper planning for the development of co-operation movement.
The situation of dis-balance of co-operation development and works in various states should be removed.
the movement should be expanded to rural and tribal regions.
The government organizations should be cooperative with co-operative marketing , consumer committees , export and import trade organizations.
The National and regional governments from time to time have undertaken steps to gather information regarding the defects of agricultural marketing and their prevention.
For the first time the major suggestions given by the royal agricultural commission in 1928 for the reform of marketing system are as follow.
Appointment of trained and skilled marketing officers.
Surveying various agricultural products.
Establishing regulated markets.
To get rid off the agricultural marketing restrictions the farmers should first organize their co-operative marketing committees.
The committees save the farmers from the exploitation of traders , reduces the monopoly of mediators and increase the power of farmer's bargaining.
They provide the aggregation , storage transportation and grading facility of agricultural products.
Marketing and inspection directorate was established in 1935 by the Indian administration.
The royal agricultural commission -LRB- 1928 -RRB- and the Central Banking investigation committee had recommended for the establishment of this directorate.
Since July , 1958 the office of the directorate has been transferred from Nagpur to Faridabad.
Currently it is functioning as marketing and investigation directorate under ministry of rural reconstruction.
Developing transportation facilities on the basis of agricultural productions is very essential in India so that produced goods are imported and exported at low cost.
Then only it will be possible to reduce agricultural marketing expenditure.
The second thing to be noted is that the speed of the construction of streets joining villages and cities being used in every season should be increased.
Further adequate number of light weight bullock carts with rubber Tyre and diesel and petrol run trucks also seems essential.
The significance of bullock carts in the age of science has not reduced.
Majority of the agricultural marketing depends on bullock carts.
In the second five year plan an all India market service has been arranged to provide information regarding the price changes of agricultural products.
The market rates of agricultural products were broadcast everyday on the radio.
Market reviews were published in the daily , weekly and monthly journals.
For this radio and television has been arranged in gram panchayats.
The everyday various market figures are collected and they are published.
The condition of Indian agricultural laborers is very deplorable.
Because of very less wages the lifestyle of these laborers is very low.
These people arrange their two square meal by working in the fields from morning till night.
They face various kinds of problems.
Agricultural labor spends his life in dirt and mud.
He works with hungry stomach and he is not even aware of relief in storm and sun.
He grows rice for us but he himself remains hungry.
He feeds our milking cows but he doesn't get anythings except pound and water.
He fills our granaries with grains but every day round the year asks for ration.
He persistently cuts wood and fills water for them.
Who have become rich because of his hard work.
His condition is shocking and lamentable story.
There is scarcity of associate domestic industrial affairs in villages.
If the crop gets destroyed because of flood , famine etc. then it becomes difficult for the farmers to survive.
Majority of the farmers in India belong to the poor class.
That is why their social status always remains low.
During the planning period there was extensive development of technology in agricultural sector, Because of the increased use of machines in agriculture unemployment among uneducated agricultural laborers is increasing which is a serious problem for them.
Housing problem - The landless laborers do not have their own houses.
They take the permission of the land owners and built huts on their useless land and stays.
As a return they have to be forced laborers at the land owner's place.
Physical , social , moral and religious dignities end when several persons stay under the same hut.
Lack of organization - There is no specific organization of Indian agricultural laborers.
that is why that are unable to make any deals with their land owners regarding their wages.
Seasonal employment - The agricultural laborers do not get work throughout the year.
according to the second agricultural investigation committee a temporary male labor gets an average of 197 days work annually out of which for 40 days he works for himself and the rest 128 days he remains unemployed, Thus in a year children get 204 days and women get 141 days work respectively.
Thus the average of his annual income remains low.
Lowest level of wages - The wage level of Indian laborers is very less than the industrial laborers.
There are two reasons behind it : Increase in the number of landless laborers and lack of non agricultural jobs in rural areas.
Low wages leave a bad impact on the health and working capacity of the laborers.
Indebtedness - The pressure of debt keeps increasing on the laborer as the income is not according to his needs.
Because of the indebtedness he hesitates in dealing with the land owners for wages.
Despite working for the entire life for the land owner's , the labor doesn't get freed from the debt.
Exploitation of child labor and women labor - The children and wives of laborers are compelled to work to fulfill their needs.
The women and child laborers are given less wages after making them work for extra hours.
Thus the exploitation of child and woman laborers is the major problem of agricultural sector.
The following suggestions are given to improve the economic and social condition of agricultural laborers.
Establishment of co-operative committees - Co-operative committees should be set up for landless laborers and and they should work in such a manner so that laborers get jobs, For example milk industry , honeybee hatching industry.
All these can improve their economic condition.
Minimum wages - Minimum wages should be set for all states to increase the income of agricultural laborers, By passing the minimum wages act in 1984 the central government has taken many steps to raise agricultural laborers.
Minimum wages has been fixed.
Arrangement of co-operation - Planning commission has recommended that low cost , airy dwelling house should be built for the agricultural laborers where they work.
Advancement in agricultural art - High quality seeds and manures should be arranged , there should be an expansion of irrigation means , means of transportation should be developed , the useless and barren land should be made arable.
There should be improvement in selling of produce , the farms should be consolidated and the farms should be made able for economic tillage , animal wealth should be reformed and the farmers should be provided capital at low rate of interest.
Development of small and cottage industry - There is need to redevelop the extincting cottage industries of our country.
It will employ many unemployed people.
Establishment of employment offices in villages - The employment offices which we have now are in cities.
Only educated people are getting benefits from it.
They can be prove to be helpful in fetching jobs for the laborers if such offices are set in villages also.
Therefore it should be noted.
Various kinds of efforts were made after independence by the Indian administration to improve the condition of laborers which as as follows.
Distribution of land - The government has emphasized the effort that whatever land will be available as a result of of land reform such as highest limit of farm which means the useless and barren land will be made arable , will be distributed among the agricultural laborers.
So far they have received 69 million hectare barren land.
5.6 million hectare land received as a result of highest limit of land has been distributed among the agricultural laborers only.
Abolition of slavery - The Indian constitution has done the abolition of the slavery of agricultural laborers.
Assistance is being provided to improve the condition of agricultural laborers and to help them lead an independent life.
In 1976 bonded labor system act was passed.
With which India became free from the problem of bonded labor.
Land donation movement - Acharya Vinova bhave started the land donation movement for the landless agricultural laborers in 1951.
The purpose of this movement was to take lands from the land owners as per their wish and distribute it to the agricultural laborers.
As a result of this movement roughly 68 million acre land was collected out of which 15 million acre land was distributed among landless farmers.
Rural industrialization - rural industrialization was also given prior importance in the schemes.
It is also essential in the current scenario.
Assistance is given in the villages for the establishment of cottage industries.
Rural industrial settlements have been build in many development boards.
As a result the agricultural laborers get more opportunities of employment and the dependence of farming reduces.
Basic credential committees were just fulfilling 3 % share of the total rural credit in 1954, Then after the share of co-operative committees in rural credit increased to 25 % till 1969 and till 1985 it became 40 %.
It is clear that still the money lenders have great belief in rural credit system.
The reason for majority of the drawbacks of primary agricultural credit committees are.
The management board of unskilled management committee do not have the knowledge of co-operative principles.
The exploiter section grows when there is no check on the lordship of hidden interest and sets its impact.
The inspection and auditing work of the committees are not adequate and satisfying.
The farmers of weaker section are mostly neglected.
The feeling of co-operation and saving has not developed in the members of the committee.
The debts are less used in productive works which is the ill-effect of not keeping eye on the debts.
There is lack of co-ordination among the credit organizations.
The doubt of competition among the government institutions and commercial banks is increasing while it is utmost essential to keep a co-ordination between both the institutions.
The development of committees in various states have been uneven.
The extension loans are inadequate.
Looking at the needs of the debts the debt amount is even less than the minimum credit needs.
Thus the dependence of farmers on exploiting money lenders still exists.
The debt policy adopted by most of the committees is contaminated.
The committees have neither adopted crop debt system nor have they made the debt policy liberal and practical.
The tradition of lending debt on the gage of land is deeply rooted.
There is unnecessary delay in debt distribution.
There is lack of co-ordination between agricultural credit and marketing practices.
The central and state co-operative banks should be quickly reformed and the weak committees should be stopped.
The committees should emphasize on quickening deposits.
The debt system should be reformed.
There should be a system of recovering debt in the form of produce and crop system should be adopted.
The debts should be used in productive works and they should be checked.
The personal treasures of co-operative committees should be strengthened.
The credit should be associated to production and marketing works.
The volunteer management board of the committees should be properly educated and trained.
Mutual co-ordination should be set between co-operative credit committees and commercial banks.
The sharp need of adequate growth in secured treasure should be emphasized.
These committees should be developed in the form of rural banks from time to time so that they provide various kinds of banking services to both agriculturists and non-agriculturists.
Serious efforts are required to reduce cross term debts.
For this , the system of associating production debts and credit with marketing and recovering debts in the form of product can be effective.
At any cost the moneylenders and other elements with vested interests should not be made the members of committees and the intelligent leaders should be given opportunities.
The farmers members of smaller and weaker sections should be encouraged so that they are service in a better way.
The farmers should be provided with new and best kind of instruments , the consumer goods should be supplied regularly at cheap rates.
The debt system should be simple , useful and workable in less time.
In October , 1985 a meeting was held in the chairmanship of central agriculture minister in order to discuss the problems of co-operative institutions and agricultural debts.
Here discussions were held on various programs and providing debt for weaker sections and debt related crimes in co-operative institutions.
The important resolutions consisted of strengthening primary agricultural debt committees , strict action against those who intentionally do not return the debts and computerization of figures in co-operative institutions.
This new program was prepared and presented in 1964 by the food & agricultural society and co-operative ministry.
On the suggestion of reserve bank of India the same year , it was sent to the state governments.
For the fulfillment of the objective it was directed that the debts will be provided evaluating their production needs in the form of cash or check.
The major characteristics of crop debt method or system can be clarified through the lines given below.
Production needs and product use are emphasized for short term credit.
That is the farmers are given debt according to the debt or ability of complex crop or capacity.
Not on the backing of their property.
The supply of good and new agricultural inputs are made regular and fixed.
The agricultural credit is connected to marketing.
The farmer is made to commit in written that he will sell his crop only through directed marketing committee and he accepts the debt amount of selling price.
Majority of the debts are given in the form of agricultural inputs.
Debts are provided before sowing the seeds and they are recovered on the harvesting.
Following problems erupt while running the crop debt method.
The arrangement of common credit distribution was not done in accordance to the production of every member.
The members took a much more debt beyond their capacity to repay because the maximum standard became minimum.
The determination of commercial standards can not be done differently for different crops.
The farmers are more interested in cash debts , they are less fond of taking debts in the form of agricultural inputs.
The repayment of debts generally can not be done by selling produce.
Food security gets promoted.
It makes the farmers debt free by doing rural development.
Energy resolves the problem.
Nature and environment remains clean.
They save the animals and birds from getting harmed by making the water and land toxin free.
Using more than required chemical fertilizers reduces the fertility and productivity of land.
The manufacturing group of seeds and fertilizers are in collaboration with the government and preventing the way of organic farming.
Finance Minister Sri P. Chidambaram has assured in Lok Sabha that the government banks would provide more and more loans to organic farmers.
He explained that banks do not keep a distinction between organic and synthetic fertilizers.
Organic foods get all types of estate.
Organic fertilizers and bio-fertilizers fall under fertilizer control policy and standard quality control.
A committee has made a provision for 2500 crore rupees in 11th five-year plan in order to encourage the organic fertilizers.
Welfare works have been started by various service providers.
There are arrangements to set up agricultural-clinic and agricultural-trade centers for agriculture graduates.
There are provisions of 25 % grant , two years of grant interest , 50 % marginal amount for a loan of 10 million for every graduate of agriculture.
An agriculture graduate can set up an organic - cultivation center.
K.V.K. trains the farmers for traditional farming which is a Zodiac system of agriculture -LRB- based on the movement of planets & constellation -RRB-.
The farmer has to take accreditation in order to get the label of organic farming.
Label contains the name of product , weight , price , property etc.
In Punjab the farmers get certificates from organic counseling and the farmers get 15 % more profit by selling their organic products to the counseling.
According to the research of Tamil Nadu Agriculture University , quality in production and enhancement in quantity is found in organic farming.
The regions where agriculture is depended on rain , there is consistent increase in production.
Organic farming is a part of civil society industry. It does not exists in public sector.
Organic farming is the basis of human rights.
Mahua Organics is helping the farmers.
They are selling organic rice , potato , spice after buying them from the farmers.
Ambuja Cement Foundation -LRB- A.C.F. -RRB- is contributing in organic farming by following its C. S. R. polic.
For doing organic farming in 9 acres ,9 farmers , spent an A. C. F. worth one fourth of 7000-8000 rupees.
The rest was spent by the farmers.
More organic food was produced and there was premium selling in market.
50 farmers with 50 acres of land came forward to do organic farming in the success story of A. C. F..
Organic farming promotes indigenous seeds.
Organic farming does not depend on seed marketing company.
Deccan Development Society -LRB- D.D.S. -RRB- , Hyderabad got the permission from P. G. S. Organic Council of India for labeling its product as organic goods.
100 farmer groups have been made in Tamil Nadu , Karnataka , Maharashtra , Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh under their auspices.
Women are doing significant work in organic farming.
Prince of Wales import organic-foods , coffee , tea , spices , pulses , milk , eggs and herbs from India and them exports them to middle east , Japan , America and England.
Garbage to Gold - G2G : - In Mumbai slum dwellers keep wet garbage in a pit and vermi-compost gets prepared after garbage collection.
In Andhra Pradesh S.H.G are selling organic red chili powder in international market with premium with the help of export agency.
Conferences , seminars , workshops , etc. are organized for the awareness of farmers.
Here special discussions are held to resolve various problems of farmers.
Organic farming is based on knowledge and technology.
Information and agencies play important role in that.
The World bank has made a policy for food security for all countries.
Now India is heading towards food insecurity.
Only organic farmer can increase food production by carrying organic farming.
Organic farmer is a sensible person.
He provides an opportunity for others to get healthy food , decent environment and happiness through his power of thinking.
Seeing the intense competition the current policy is to provide organic food to ordinary people at modest prices.
Industry gives benefit to the organic farmers by working in this direction and provides an opportunity to move forward.
No country can be said to be a sovereign state until it imports food for its people.
Therefore only organic farmer is the food security guard of the country.
Shastriji's slogan " Jai Jawan , Jai Kisan " applies to organic farmers.
After the completion of 60 years of 20th century , fast growing population and up to some extent capitalism pressurized to develop a system of quick production.
During 1960 decade , the production rapidly increased because of the use of hybrid seeds , chemical fertilizers , pesticides and means of irrigation in the green revolution adopted for food.
After the green revolution other productions almost became double and it became able to fulfill the requirements of growing population.
But because of the use of chemical fertilizers soil fertility started decreasing.
Hybrid Varieties were sensitive for several insects.
Initially these insects were in control because of the use of traditional methods.
In order to reduce the effect of these insects , pesticides were used in more quantity.
Because of which our atmosphere started getting polluted and pests developed the resistance towards Pesticide.
The quality of water was also effected severely as the chemical elements got dissolved with water combined into water sources.
Modern agriculture started depending more on external inputs such as chemical fertilizers , pesticide , herbicide and machinery.
The major ill effects of modern farming include soil erosion , lack of water availability , soil salinity , chemical fertilizers and pollution due to pesticides.
Quality of food has reduced because of the use of pesticides and polluted water.
The solution of these all problems lies in organic farming only.
Crop producers no more have the same taste which producers of conventional farming had.
Man has been stabilizing agriculture by following the traditional knowledge of agriculture , correcting previous errors and also on the basis of his experience.
The negative and harmful aspects of chemical farming were first identified by the farmers of European countries like - Germany , France etc.
In 1923 Dr. Rudolf Steiner , an Austrian scientist was the first person to tell that chemical farming along with agriculture destroys the thinking power of human.
Drugs prepared by micro-organisms are used in pesticide management.
The enemy pests are efficiently managed.
Hybrid disease-free crops and animal species are used.
Green manure and nitrogenous plants are used.
In India poor small and medium farmers carry the Rain-fed farming , which does not require much chemical inputs.
Only these farmers are suitable for organic farming.
Day by day the demand of organic products is increasing in some super markets.
The farmers have a golden chance to fulfill this fast increasing demand.
Majority of the farmers in India belong to middle class.
Initial investment at high rates for modern farming is beyond reach for him.
While all the inputs organic farming have been provided by the nature , the farmers can get more benefit at less investment.
The main goal of 11th five year plan -LRB- 2007-12 -RRB- is to elevate the standard of living of our farmers and strengthen the economy.
Organic agriculture is a tool through which this objective can be accomplished.
Today when both the farmers and farming are in danger , organic farming is the only alternative.
Some people have a doubt that they will not get the same production with organic farming what they get by using chemical fertilizers.
Regarding this it can be said that till the first 3-4 year only average production could be availed but after that both productivity and production will increase.
Therefore without wasting time organic farming should be popularized.
The cost incurred is low and the soil quality also remains intact.
Insects do not get destroyed because of the increased amounts of bacteria and production capacity increases.
Today we are talking about second green revolution , which will be based on soil.
Soil is the life saver of the farmers.
Like industries , today ' knowledge management ' is utterly required in agriculture.
Meanwhile our country needs to move towards' soil revolution ' from ' green revolution ' , then only the future of mankind will be secured.
Today while it is necessary to fulfill the increasing consumer demand for organic food , the big worry for agricultural development is to maintain consistent sustainable production.
Organic farming is quite different from traditional chemical farming.
Actually organic farming can be said to be a sub section of sustainable agriculture.
The only difference is that it requires a certification of a recognized institution according to legal standards.
Currently more than 95 % organic agricultural products are consumed by developed countries.
The main producers and importers of organic agriculture are European Union , USA and Japan.
In a country like India where still farmers use traditional farming methods and where the farmers of small agricultural land holdings are in large number , organic agriculture is most appropriate.
several kinds of organic nutrients are naturally available in various geographical areas of India which can prove to be a boon for organic farming in the country.
Including areas with 100 to 10,000 mm rainfall in the country there are mountainous and deserts also.
In fact in the hilly and rain fed areas of the northeast in country the use of chemical fertilizers is almost negligible.
All these areas naturally fall under organic farming.
According to an estimation India has approximately 76 , 000 hectares of agricultural land under organic farming and 2.4 million hectares are forest , which are the sources of wild herbs.
But in reality the agricultural land under organic farming is much more than this.
Among Indian states Uttaranchal and Sikkim have declared themselves as organic farming states.
According to an estimation during 2006-07 India exported organic products worth 301.24 billion.
Excluding the herbs exported from UP and MP the export of organic products from India is estimated to be around 85 %.
India occupies a special place in the export of organic tea , it also has great potential for other products.
Similarly spices , fruits etc. are some other products which have good export potential.
The Indian companies certifying organic foods will have status equivalent to European Commission -LRB- EC -RRB-.
With this the Indian organic products would not require to be certified by European agencies and the export value for organic agricultural products will be less.
According to an estimation during certification only 500-1000 euro per hectare would be saved.
Indian government has formed 6 institutions for the certification and authentication -LRB- domestic or international -RRB- of organic agricultural products.
National organic standards have been fixed for organic production under national program.
Currently 11 accredited certification agencies are functioning in India.
INDOCERT located in Kerala is also one of the domestic certifying agencies.
Europe is the second biggest market of organic food products in the world , and half of whole production of world is consumed here only.
The European market of organic agriculture is estimated to be around 9 billion US Dollars and its annual growth is approximately 20 % depending upon the market situations.
Japan is the biggest organic food market in Asia.
In 2003 , the retail sales of organic food and beverages was 2.5-3.0 billion U. S. dollar.
Out Of this , import was worth around 360 billion U. S. dollars.
Saudi Arabia , U. A. E. and South Africa are other markets for organic foods.
Currently India's share in global organic coffee market is 1 % out of 150 million U. S. dollars and its share in the global organic spice market is 3 % out of 3.2 million dollars.
In the context of increasing production in India it is assumed that it will keep increasing.
The organic fruits and vegetables exports from India to U. S. and European Union is approximately 40 %.
If the post-harvest initial infrastructure and cold storage chain are effectively strengthen , then there would be huge potential for India in this sector.
Dairy is another sector where sufficient potential exists for India because majority of he fodder fed to the animals is free of chemicals in India.
India has certainly become successful in exporting agricultural genes to major organic food markets of the world.
India's population is more than one billion and out of this 400 million people belong to middle-class.
Neighborhood grocery shops are dominating the retail market of foods for such a large population.
There are 11 small shops available for every thousand person.
In this system price of food increases during the channelization of food products from field processor - distributor - retailer - customer and quantity and quality also decreases.
Supply chain is very weak in India.
There are more than 50 % edible products among the production of retail market in India.
the percentage of brand less products are greater in number.
Therefore in India , there is tremendous opportunity for such kind of branded marketing.
Recently big corporates of India have come forward in this sector and are trying to increase the retail business by opening their retail chains.
97 % of India's retail business is occupied by hawkers , push cart vendors and grocery stores.
Hawkers and pushcart vendors are said to be moving supermarkets and these belong to self organized sector.
They are seen on every street.
These retail marketers of low cost neither have their native village nor city.
They sell their products only by going streets to street.
Grocery stores consists of small , medium-sized shops , retail shops of edible products and family shops.
These shops are available in the vicinity to fulfill everyday needs of people.
In U. S. such shops are known as mum and pop stores.
Grocery shopkeeper - It is such a powerful system which is not seen anywhere else in the Asian region.
Vendors are main components of unorganized sector.
They have their own system which is quite appropriate for India.
This wing of retail system is good for the poor public of India.
Any kind of permanent location is not good for them.
So it is difficult to assess their financial input into the trade.
They set their business with little investment and taking little loan Where there is place for a person to sir at the footpath and they will also more or less visit their homes.
This system is long lasting and is spread in whole India.
This is a primary source of employment for poor.
Weekly marts are held in rural areas of India.
Retail trade of grocery goods for the first time began in South India.
The first family retail chain was Nilgiri ' s.
Later corporates such as Big Bazaar , Reliance Fresh etc. established their chains in Hyderabad , Chennai and Bangalore.
Along with big , medium and small cities and even in a population ranging from 1 million - 5 million corporates have Organized retail chains.
Costs can be reduced by using technological knowledge.
With the use of inventory management and I. T. instruments in supply chain , consumption pattern or customer habits can be determined.
With the help of two innovative technical systems such as cross docking and electronic data inter chains direct connection of head quarters is established with selling terminal.
Sellers are analyzed here.
Besides the detailed analysis of customers could be done with the help of data warehousing.
NGO services are being used at local level in corporate farm management so that essential rights products are availed at proper time.
There are several brokers between the supplier and retailer in the traditional system.
But in the modern retail system they are directly related to the producers.
Transportation plays an important role in the supply of food products.
Corporates get logistics from external sources.
Cold chains spread all across the country has cold storage facilities , cold chain , refrigerated vans and other special services are provided by logistics companies.
This is a huge facility for modern retail business.
With this unique delivery system has been developed.
Indian consumers have enough information about the quality and price of products and they only want to buy the best things.
Customer's favorite things are easily found in organized chains.
Grading and standardization methods are performed at various stages of preparation of food products , processing and storage.
The employment in retail business establishments in rural areas is 39.28 % and in cities it is 45 %.
After the invasion of big corporates in retail trade , the small shopkeepers will suffer loss.
Their financial sources will disappear.
They would not be able to compete with large corporates.
Benefits of corporates will increase the and the income of farmers will reduce.
Indian retail food market is worth Rs 1 , 500 billion.
Out of this the share of organized retail shoppers is only 2.5%.
The price of goods should be decreased in order to increase this share.
After the establishment of this system these stores will be a threat for the branded food industries.
It is difficult to be a part of the production process of small and marginal farmers for a long time.
The autonomy of farmers ends due to contract farming and wholesale purchase.
On the suggestion of regional specialization by big corporates , the farmers might suffer loss because of the impractical crop production by growing single crop in a year.
Farmers only will suffer a loss because of monopoly in purchasing power and monopoly control over farmers and their products.
Currently around 40 million unemployed people are dependent on this sector.
Their livelihood will be lost.
According to a recent survey , there has been decline in 4.2 % of annual turnover of the unorganized retail sector but according to them its cause is not the organized sector but the competitiveness of the unorganized sector.
The survey stated that by the entry of organized retail sector the profitability of the farmers will increase by 60 %.
Because of organized retail sector farmers will get benefits by directly selling their produce to the purchasers.
They will be able to use the new technology , seeds etc. and increase their productivity.
According to this report one can take the help of contract farming for bulk purchase which is now being used by big corporates like Nestle.
According to a report because of the entry of large corporates into retail market , farmers , customers and small informal retail traders will be benefitted.
Economy particularly agricultural sector is more likely to increase with this.
Despite the projected merits of the organized retail chain , small traders across the country raised voice against these large retail chains.
Movements were carried in many cities.
It was estimated that because of the large retail chains 20 million people lost their jobs and livelihood.
Small shopkeepers decided not to sell airtel sim card in Mumbai against the Bharti - Walmart joint venture.
Many freedom fighters , supported these movements of small vendors.
These small traders say that the big corporates want to have their monopoly over the market by being producer , wholesaler and retailer.
Famous NGO leaders say that the whole world is going towards corporate-to-cooperative.
In such a situation the retail chains of large corporates will be detrimental for the people of India.
Thus strong protest appeared in all areas against these corporate chains.
According to them , globalization is not only applicable to multi-ethnic companies but also to poor public.
Unorganized retail trade was strengthened in south Asian countries and it increased significantly.
Traditional shops and vendors were restricted to areas with less population and their physical structure was increased.
Preventing the entry of large corporates is like preventing the sunrise.
Unorganized retail sector might be helped through Cash and Carry system.
According to a survey it was also revealed that because of the coalition of farmers and corporate , intermediaries have disappeared and there has been 40 % increase in the profit of farmers.
The only thing to be kept in mind is that along with large corporate the existence of the small shops should also be ensured.
India occupies ninth position in large retail trade marketing.
History gives us the information about our interchange and business relationships with many countries.
This country was seen as a rich country.
This prosperity only attracted traders from several countries to come here and start their business.
After the invasion of the Yavanas during medieval period this country got destroyed.
Later , instead of promoting the business opportunities here , the British also followed the strategy of looting.
After freedom this country has touched new heights by doing hard work.
The market paying reasonable values of products is main requirement of farmer.
Enhancement in agricultural business and purchasing power of a farmer is possible only when he gets right price of his product.
The retail traders in India purchase the products from wholesalers.
As a result there is huge increase in price till it reaches the consumer.
Because of this marketing system while at one side the producer gets less value on the other side consumer has to pay more amount.
so far the marketing system at our place was mostly carried by unorganized traditional sector.
According to Indian retail report India's retail market is worth 270 billion dollar which is growing at a rate of 5.7 % every year.
485 billion or 4.7 % share of the retail market is controlled by big corporations.
The rest 95.3 % retail trade is carried by traditional retail traders.
But the retail trade carried by corporations increases at the rate of 28 to 30 % every year.
It is estimated that around 6600 mega stores would be established with an investment of 40,000 billion rupees by 2011.
It is estimated that for every thousand population there are 11 retail shops which do not include shops of weekly markets.
In the Indian retail market following corporations are giving large scale impacts and they are expected to remain influential further.
Many major changes would be seen in the near future in this sector through merging and acquisitions.
Subhiksha : - This society was initiated in 1997 in Chennai , whose founder is Mr R. Subramanian , and who has educated from IIT and IIAS.
This institution deals with grocery goods , fresh and frozen food , consumer goods and books.
It is prevalent in the form of subsidized store.
' Saving is my right ' is their motto.
Reliance retail : It is a branch of the Reliance Industries co-ordinated by Mukesh Ambani and it is active in market since June 2006.
Spencers : It is also known as RPG Enterprises , which is a very large professional association and its annual turnover is worth Rupees 7500 billion.
This industry is coordinated by Mr. R.P. Goenka.
By 2009 there are plans to open 2000 stores.
Star India Bazaar : Trunt Ltd - This is a Tata group industry which deals with private label products of high-margin for customers of B and C class.
They also have an outlet named by Tata Kisan Sansar.
Big Bazaar , Pantaloon -LRB- Future Group -RRB- : - This industry is run by Kishore Biyani, Its policy is " Capture All " , which means selling all kinds of items for people of all ages through various stores.
Many multinational companies - such as Wal-Mart , Carrefour , Tesco , Metro are looking forward to come to India.
Under the current directives of the government FDI is allowed only in wholesale cash-and-carry model but it is not allowed in multi-brand retail stores.
In single brand retail shop FDI is limited to 51 % but multibrand international retailers may trade with franchisee route where their Indian partner will run their business operations.
Future joint venture between Bharti and Wal-Mart is famous which is being extensively raged.
While at one place air pollution spreads because of large-scale use of vehicles by institutional retailers at the other place the environment gets contaminated by increased use of plastics and packing materials.
Pollution on original sources increases with more power consumption , also the ozone level in environment gets dis-balanced because of air-conditioning systems.
Mediators have a major role in the current system and thus they get employment at large scale.
It is a myth that farmers will get good prices.
The entrance of effective chains like FDI and Wal mart in retail market will be very harmful and it will end the traditional retail system.
A big share of profit coming from this sector will go to foreign countries.
Organized retail business is beneficial for consumers , producers as well as mediators.
In southern and eastern parts of the country , there was no bad impact on the traditional retail trade because of organized retail trade but it increased their employment.
Traditional merchants sell their goods to customers on credit , because of which large number of clients are still with them.
44 % of the customers in eastern part and 32 % of the customers in southern part of the country are still with traditional merchants.
Lack of banking facilities to the traditional traders are blocking their progress.
Low-income consumers have gained most by purchasing from organized retailers as most traders providing discounts belong to organized institutional sector.
89 % of the mediators have decided to continue the traditional retail business.
Only 3 % of the mediators have chosen to change the business.
There has been 60 % increase in the profit of farmers who have directly sold their products to institutional shops.
Cash and carry model like that of china should be adopted for getting fresh food products from farmers.
A uniform law should be made in the entire country to provide licenses and permits and there should be comfortable arrangements to avail these facilities.
' Competition commission of India ' should be empowered to curb the opportunity of organized sector to increase price.
Institutional traders in Brazil get permission to trade with city councils by dealing and guidelines are fixed at national level.
For modernization of retail markets a board has been established in Singapore which manages organization and modernization of small stores.
In Taiwan markets have been declared as fully modern and they have been converted into super markets.
In Hong-Kong the management of markets is handed over to private managers.
Most of the countries are now members of WTO and as per the treaty with organization the concept of open economy has become real.
Therefore this is the best idea to overcome the risks of danger and achieve success by using the available opportunities evolved from this process.
Globalization is a reality, It has opportunities as well as risks.
If we study the various issues of the agricultural problems then gist of all these studies gets stuck to an important thing , which is - distribution of agricultural products.
If today agriculture needs any supportive factor then that is - adequate employment based on organized markets and economic advancement of rural areas of the country.
Agricultural distribution system has been defined in many ways.
Still if it is to be defined precisely then it can be said that this is a tangible institutional arrangement which include various activities ranging from the source of agricultural production , availability of the produced good in the hands of consumer , transportation and several other services.
In the activities of modern marketing of agricultural products , agricultural products reach their last consumer by passing through the hands of several mediators.
Current scenario - In India organized marketing of agricultural products has been promoted through regulated marketing network.
Most of the state governments and union territories have passed 2 laws for the regulation of markets belonging to agricultural products.
During 1950s decade only 286 regulated markets were available in country , but by march 2006 the number reached to 7566.
Besides this there are 21780 rural marts in India , but only 15 % of them work under the periphery of organized and regular markets.
The transportation of products and goods is carried through a large chain of mediators and agencies.
Production , rural traders or mediators , contractors before harvesting , commission agents and transport agents are the main working component in the primary market.
Thus processing and production agents also include as an additional mediators in secondary market.
In the process of marketing all the mediators get some share of margin with their contribution.
Therefore , price of products increases unnecessarily.
The nature of agricultural products and their state of being deteriorated makes their seasonal availability more complex.
Suppliers have the weaknesses of infrastructural management.
Many problems have evolved due to fast growth in agricultural products such as additional marketing of food grains etc.
At the same time there is need to face challenges due to liberalization in the global market and to take advantage of opportunities also.
Transition phase - In the new agriculture policy of India it has been said that partnership of private sector will be promoted by contract farming and participation of private sector will be encouraged through leasing of land whereby technology transfer , private flows and secure market of crop production could be increased.
A partnership between the Indian corporate and rural India is flourishing with extensive coordination.
' E-Chaupal ' has started an ambitious' E-Chaupal project ' which aims at enabling Indian agriculture at international level and vast improvement in living standard of rural India.
The main target of this scheme is to ensure regular supply of raw goods by establishing control on this supply chain.
In remote villages of Madhya Pradesh , Karnataka , Uttar Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh , e - Choupal has been established by farmers with the help of computers having internet and printers through portal.
These kiosks are run by leading farmers of villages which are called ' Sanchalak '.
Operators are trained to run computers.
The current market values of all state markets are displayed at these kiosks simultaneously.
It also contains weather information and provides knowledge of various scientific systems to farmers.
E-Chopal has provided the chance to buy soybean , rice and other crops to I.T.C directly from farmers.
Undoubtedly with this type of system the farmers have got an online market in their own remote villages as a substitute of market.
Transaction costs are reduced with this system.
Currently e-chopal has reached 3 lac 50 thousand farmers through 650 kiosks with which farmers interchange soybean , coffee , wheat , rice and pulses.
There are possibilities of contract farming in an agricultural country like India.
Seeing their welfare , companies are also analyzing their facilities provided by states.
A world famous company has started contract farming in Haryana for the production of barley.
SAB Miller India is a world known company which has provided their famous brands FOSTERS , CARTLE , HAYWARDS to the market and it has associated 400 farmers through contract farming in 2500 acres.
Bangalore based Global Green Company has achieved good success though contract farming and now it is the biggest gherkin producing company of India.
The fertile land of the country is favorable for several kinds of grains , fruits and vegetables in every season.
The current fruit production of our country is 32 million metric ton which is 8 % of total fruit production of the world.
With 15 % of the total world vegetable production , India is the second largest vegetable producer.
In order to make a modern and effective marketing system , farmers are required to make large investments in cold storage houses near their farms after harvesting.
A huge part of this investment can only come from the private sector.
Therefore appropriate strategic decision must be taken.
Further the process of directly buying agricultural products from the farmers should be encouraged.
So that an effective interaction between agricultural production and retail chain is established.
Recently government has taken some steps to promote modern terminal markets for fruits , vegetables and other agricultural products in important city centers of India.
Such types of markets will also provide affordable as well as modern infrastructural facility to the farmers.
The working system of these terminal markets is based on " HUB AND SPOKE " model where terminal markets in the form of hub are connected with spoke-like collection centers.
Along with removing all quantitative restrictions on imports , the merging of Indian economy with global economy seems to be more practical.
We need to take ample advantages of the competitive scenarios in international trade.
The government has followed " Region and special product policy " to promote the export of various agricultural products.
This hypothesis is known as Agri Export Zones.
Two tasks are done in commodity future markets , stipulated price and price risk management.
By the value stipulation work , participants are helped in understanding market conditions and taking business decisions accordingly.
The major economic work of future market is to promote the market access so that transaction costs are reduced.
According to an estimation every year a loss of Rs 80 , 000 billion is suffered.
The annual consumption of fruits and vegetables in U. K is even less than the fruits that are wasted every year in India.
Therefore it is extremely important to do post harvesting management such as focusing on cold storage and good transport management so that post harvesting loss may be removed.
Production is incomplete until it reaches the hands of last consumer in required condition , on time and at desired place.
Therefore market occupies an extremely important place in the process of production.
Generally 5-6 mediators are found in Agri value chains.
Farmers only get 25-30 % share of the value paid by consumers.
This is a big challenge before Indian agriculture.
It needs to be resolved.
Indian farmers have an average land even less than two hectares which is also the root cause of farmer's problems.
The information technology phase has brought revolution in information transaction at world level.
Farmers can not take advantage of current market prices and small farmers always fail in taking decision in their favor.
Some action has become possible in this direction by starting e-chopal by some corporates like ITC and some positive results are also observed.
There are unlimited opportunities for information technology in the Indian agriculture sector.
By the execution of international standards it has become mandatory to maintain the quality of crops for export.
The primary function of any market is to do the pricing of goods and services on the base of their demand and supply.
The current price of the commodity in spot market depends on its actual demand and supply.
Today's price depends on today's demand and supply and future price will depend on future demand and supply.
The segment determining the future price of the commodity in market is known as future market.
In any economy value performs an important function of efficient allocation of resources.
Unlike a normal market , the work of Commodity market is not only limited to pricing but also to provide risk management solutions to people.
The Future market paves way to manage risks related to commodity price through future and option derivative products etc..
Commodity markets has an important place in economic growth and development of countries.
Uncertain weather , persistent global imbalances and fast increase in demand is responsible for rapid fluctuation in prices of commodities and this raises the risk management requirements.
The outbreak of institutions like future market is because of these factors only.
In 2002 multi-commodity exchange was established at national level.
At international level major commodity exchanges exists in America , Japan and England.
Transaction level of international commodity market is five to twenty times more than the spot market.
Commodity futures are bought and sold in the commodity market.
Thus , commodity futures is the product of derivatives series where underlying commodity is a commodity rather than a security.
Price fluctuation of the commodity futures depends on underlying commodity price fluctuation.
While on the analysis of definition , commodity futures looks like forward covenant , the symptoms of its distinction with forward covenant also appear.
Evidently , in the case of commodity futures not only commodity , price or volumes are preset , but the quality and location of their delivery etc. are also preset.
One of the two parties is definitely a commodity exchange.
Thus the exchange acts as a central counter-party.
Settlement Guarantee Fund is also sustained by the Commodity Exchange , which is similar to the fund , sustained by stock exchanges.
Every similar covenant represents a certain quantity of fixed quality commodity whose transaction is done at a predetermined location.
This covenant is transferable and with the passage of time , due to changes in demand and supply of commodity , the price of this covenant also varies , with the changes in spot prices.
This covenant can be freely bought and sold in the secondary market with variable value.
The spot price of the object during any time also determines the value of the covenant.
This type of contract called futures , always happens through commodity exchange rather than being directly between any two individuals.
Only commodity exchange is responsible for payment or delivery of the commodity.
Actually commodity futures is used for speculation or risk management , and the actual deliveries are non-existent.
Due to commodity market the producers of commodities can sell their production at fixed price before its production.
On the other hand , consumers can buy the commodities at preset prices before the actual date of consumption.
Thus not only the producer escapes from the risks of possible increase in prices but consumers also escape from the risks of possible increase in prices.
Commodity market presents a very scientific and just process of risk management which fulfills the need of both producers and consumers.
By putting the related commodity in go-downs approved by exchange for longer period , transaction to sell at better prices in the futures market can be carried.
Fluctuation in commodity futures market are not so intense as they are in the stock market.
Hence , commodity market transaction is relatively safe.
By balancing the demand and supply of various commodities , this market determines an undisputed and acceptable price very transparently.
If a deal is settled without delivery opposite to deal then sales tax does not apply.
Sales tax applies only in those cases where delivery is taken or given.
Usually it is the responsibility of the seller to collect and pay the sales tax.
From June 1 , 2008 , the Government has provided the system of commodity transaction tax.
The covenants in NCDEX expires on the 20th of every month.
If there is a holiday on 20th then the expiration date will be a day before that date.
In the case of the item with greater fluctuation values , margin amount is increased.
In addition to risk management , the derivative products are largely used by speculators.
The truth is that the speculator class is the backbone of any future-market.
No futures market can not be imagined without speculators.
Speculator class is the class which manages not only the risks inherent in the actual commercial transactions but assesses the risks and its direction already present in the market , attempts to get benefits out of it.
The class of real commercial risk management is ignorant of demand and supply and other subtle factors affecting prices , and does not have the skills to analyze concerning data.
He is engaged in commercial transactions and his interest lies only in the prevention of risks related to those transactions.
In contrast , speculator class has a deep understanding of market and the various factors that influencing it.
By closely studying the ever-changing conditions of demand and supply of the commodity at regional , national and international level , spectacular class gets skilled in the accurate assessment based on its solid inferences.
The profit or loss made by him depends on the accuracy of market values estimates.
So he does this work with professional dedication.
He deals in futures markets on the basis of these estimations.
Since speculator class is a knowledgeable group and 90 % of the market is driven by this class only , therefore , market values and their future direction indicated by the transactions done by this class can be considered as solid signal.
Speculator class only provides the desired liquidity to market and freedom to deal on different prices to actual business risk managers.
This class provides balance to the market rather than imbalance.
Thus we see that spectacular class actually saves the market from rapid and unexpected imbalances and provides it balance and presumability.
In the opinion of experts the reason behind ever increasing inflation is increase in the price of imported crude oil and perpetual reduction in global food supply.
The common people suffering from continuously rising prices , estimate that the high levels of betting in commodity market is responsible for it.
Abhijit Sen committee appointed by Parliament has made it clear in its report that futures business and spot market prices have no correlation.
Increasing prices are concerned with rapidly rising demand than supply , which is an international issue ant not limited only to India.
In addition to the various segments of society , banking group also gets benefit from Commodity market.
The banks providing loans can save themselves up to great extent from possible NPA by dealing equivalent to the value of the loan in futures markets.
It is specifically possible in those situations when borrower fails in paying debts due to loss because of the fall in prices.
After passing of proposed amendment in Banking Regulation Act , banks will get the permission to trade in futures market.
In that condition banks would not only be able to do proper diversification of their investment portfolio on behalf of clients but also by proprietary deals.
Through such transactions fee income can also be obtained by the banks.
As a result of the liquidity thus witnessed in commodity market the banks may transfer their risks by closing the warehouse receipts in futures market.
Globally , the commodity market size is ten times more than the size of the share market.
The general perception of people may differ but experts believe that generally future trade is not responsible for the fluctuation of prices in spot market.
The steps hurriedly taken to prevent the activities of commodity market appear like killing the messenger who brings bad messages.
The vegetable production in India is 108.2 million tonnes -LRB- 2005-06 -RRB- which is second highest in the world.
Being the country with different kinds of suitable climate plenty of natural resources , 85 types of fruits and 175 types of vegetables are produced in India.
Despite all these factors , the total export of our country is just 1.0 % of the total agricultural and food product export of the world.
There is only 2-3 % processing in fruits and vegetables.
The share of India in mangoes production of the world is 59 % share but it has only 13.55 % share in export and only 2.35 % fruits are processed.
Our export has become negligible due to less production , more domestic consumption , low quality and lack of exportable products in large quantities.
The domestic industry has to prepare high quality products at reasonable prices in order to make it suitable for export market.
By cultivating and exporting off season fruits we can earn more profit.
The Processing sector of our country is also the largest in terms of production , consumption , export and growth prospects.
Export of processed foods has crossed Rs 15 , 000 billion.
However , seeing the potential in processing and volume of fruits production , still lot of work has to be be done.
Fresh flowers of India are exported to 87 countries of the world , mainly , Australia , UK , Japan , Netherlands and United Arab Emirates.
There has been major growth in cut flowers.
For the export of flowers more than 150 pro-export units are being developed in the entire country , especially near the Pune , Chandigarh , Bangalore and Delhi.
Agricultural export zone was presumed to enhance the exportable agricultural products , and to give reasonable price of the commodities to the farmer community.
So far , 60 such agricultural export zones have been established.
Investment of 17 billion rupees was proposed for these agricultural export zones and so far 8 billion rupees are spent on them.
Several agricultural exports zones are exporting more than required target.
34 applications are under consideration for establishing agricultural export zones.
Under the various schemes of state and central government various economic and other assistance are being provided in these agricultural export zones.
Under its various schemes and provisions , APDA would play complementary roles in state governments' efforts to increase the export of agricultural and food products.
According to the estimation of international consultant Dunn and Bradstreet , agricultural and dairy products worth around 13 billion U. S. dollars -LRB- Rs 52 , 000 crore -RRB- are wasted in India.
There are several products in the food sector which yield good price after morning harvesting and by the evening they remain fit only to be fed by cattle.
The farmers can escape loss by selling such products from food parks on time.
In the absence of processing and immediate selling there may be up to 25 to 35 % loss in fruits and vegetables.
The big Indian and multinational companies have a processing capacity of 30 tons per hour.
There has been remarkable growth in this industry due to liberalization and removal of excise on fruit and vegetable products.
For the overall development of the agricultural sector there was a proposal to develop 36 food parks like the software parks.
Each of them has a grant of Rs 50 billion.
There is a possibility to provide jobs to 75 million people through these food parks.
Food parks are being developed to provide support to the agricultural sector.
This will encourage the food processing industry and the dream of reaching reasonable quality foods from farm to plate will be possible.
Food ministry has kept a provision of Rs 1 , 500 billion for food parks through special purpose vehicle.
NAFED , Spices Board and the State Trading Corporation has initiated the making of agricultural food park by building a special purpose vehicle and the first food park is being made in Madhya Pradesh.
State Trading Corporation has already established two food park in Karnataka , one for chili and another for pepper.
National Horticulture Board and APDA , are providing attractive economic incentives for establishing chilling and packaging industries.
Government of India is giving 25 % subsidy on investment -LRB- Maximum Rs 50 million -RRB- for establishing processing industries in the food parks.
These pre-manufacturing period of production for these food parks will be of 3 to 5 years.
Cold Chain and food processing technology will play an important role in the development of mega food parks.
Farmers can also do the harvesting , grading and processing of their crops according to the daily need of food parks , thus food parks will get fixed quality of raw materials at proper time.
This will benefit both the farmers as well as the food parks.
Farmers will get a fair amount for their crop.
They will also get more benefit by growing cash crops.
Food parks should be established away from towns and cities in the remote areas so that rural population gets benefits from them and cities do not get overcrowded.
Brokers will not play any roles in all these works so that farmers get a fair price for their produce.
The produce of the farmers can also be collected in their farms as per the requirement.
These food parks can be installed for one or two specific products or for multiple products.
This is a very good move for the overall development of agriculture.
Contract farming will also develop through food parks.
Through contract farming , farmers will receive seeds , fertilizers , technology , etc. from the company.
Their products will be sold at a pre-determined price.
Price will also be reasonable.
The immediate selling of products will eliminate the possibility of loss.
Hence , the producer of the raw material will get better value for their goods at proper time.
Agri Export zones and food Parks up tp some extent can also do the work of complementing each other.
The product remaining from export can be utilized in local food park.
Seeing the various possibilities today almost every major corporate of India is investing in high-tech agriculture projects.
With 2.5 % geographic expansion on this globe of earth our country India is more rich in medicinal -LRB- therapeutic -RRB- plants and holds 25 % of the world's biodiversity.
The mountains of our country are its treasure , every tree , plant , flower or seed definitely has some medicinal use or another.
The main cause of this biodiversity is our country's diverse geographic position.
Annual rainfall is measured between 2 inches to 400 inches.
The country India which contributed an excellent discipline like Ayurveda to the world is now more popular for unity in diversity.
The saying ' Mera Bharat Mahan ' seems to be true when we see the growing importance of Yoga , Pranayama , Ayurveda and medicinal plants in Western countries.
But the herbal medicines described in our 3500 year old Ayurveda science are still effective.
There has never been any difference in the formula of Triphala powder and Rasayans.
Their inventor saints had no desire to get the patent.
Due to the adverse impact of chemical pharmaceuticals , the demand for medicinal herbs has increased in the west as well as our country.
People's inclination towards Ayurveda and unconventional medicinal practices has even increased in developed countries.
This factor only increases the likelihood of progression of Indian medicines and aromatic plants.
During ancient times , human life was extremely simple , regular and full of hard work.
He was constantly in touch with nature.
Today the situation is quite opposite.
Human is getting miles away from nature.
Irregularity in diet has become a way of life.
Due to atmospheric pollution and leading stressful life diseases are triggered.
Therefore the demand for harmless drugs is increasing before the doctors.
Man has been using medicinal herbs since ancient times.
It is very essential to save the rich botanical heritage of our country , because nearly 200 medicinal plants are on the verge of extinction.
Less developed countries such Malaysia , Thailand , and Philippines are engaged in the export of forests.
India also has lost many acres of forest in this lust.
According to National forest policy there should be forests on one third of the land.
Preparation for new agricultural revolution in the world is being initiated.
The path of prosperity in the village will now go from cities to villages.
If farmers want to be connected with the global market then they have to produce these things.
Today Ayurveda has a market of Rs 300 , 000 billion in the world.
This market is expected to soon expand to Rs 10 million crore.
India has negligible share -LRB- 2.5 % -RRB- in this market.
For agricultural revolution after Ayurveda , agriculture will now then with processing.
China is ahead of India in the global herb market.
Indian forest dwellers gather herbs and sell them in the local market , and its price depends on the local merchants.
India has nearly 10,000 licensed pharmacies.
Local doctors and herbal physicians also demand for these plants.
The reason behind negligible participation of India in export of medicinal plant is demand for best quality by foreign traders.
The farmers here are not able to fulfill this demand.
The reason why the Indian farmers adopt traditional farming over medicinal plant cultivation is a matter to be considered at national level.
The price of medicinal plants are mainly concerned with quality.
They keep fluctuating.
The farmers does not want to adopt such strange cultivation unless he gets adequate assurance.
The price of plants and herbs collected in forests are less than the plants grown through cultivation.
Like fruits and vegetables herbs are not easily sold in local market.
The farmers have to depend on the mercy of local herb traders.
Several medicinal plants are industry based.
Amla , Ashok , Bilwa , Neem etc. trees take longer time to reach production level.
That is why farmers neglect them.
Identifying correct plant with textual description in classical texts is a difficult task , which an illiterate farmer can not do.
This is the reason drugs are adulterated.
Negligence of government machinery is an important issue.
That is why the cultivation of medicinal plants do not get sufficient encouragement.
Several medicinal plants are not properly classified.
The cultivation of fragrant flowers require more land because those plants contain 0.5 % -1.5 % oil.
Government machinery has to function to encourage the cultivation of medicinal and fragrant flowers.
For this it is essential to make agriculture policy.
It is extremely important for the national medicinal plant council to encourage the farmers for the cultivation of these plants.
It is essential to train the farmers about the cultivation of herbs , conservation , market system , parameters of quality etc.
There is no need to cultivate several medicinal plants which grow in forests and infertile land.
It is very easy to collect them from barren land.
They grow in immoderate quantity in forests.
There is no possibility of their extinction.
It is very essential for the forest dwellers collecting those medicinal plants from the forests fix minimum price for the plants and provide them.
The agricultural University should do the significant job of correctly identifying many such plants that have been described in Indian classical texts.
There is a debate among the scholars regarding the correct identification of the significant plant Som.
Ban on the use of chemical insecticides while cultivating medicinal and fragrant plants is essential so that they are exported overseas and they fetch more money.
It is very essential for the various universities to organize training camps for progressive farmers.
The dream of our former President Shri Abdul Kalam to list India among the five super powers of the world by 2020 does not seem to be possible with the second green revolution.
Perfumed oils can be obtained from any part of the plant or from the entire plant.
Oil can be obtained from the entire body of konifery plants.
Perfumed oils can be obtained from the root , stem , leaves , flowers , seeds , fruits or any part of the flower.
Perfumed oils can be obtained from the root or rhizome of turmeric and ginger plant.
Efforts are being made to obtain oil from the roots of curcuma aromatica and curcuma zedoaria.
The powder made from the roots of these plants are used in medicines and cosmetics.
some oils are obtained from the seeds and dry flowers.
Oil is also extracted from the leaves of coriander.
Oil is obtained from the leaves , flowers and immature fruits of the trees of lemon species.
The chemical composition of perfumed oils are completely different from vegetable oils and fatty oils but both the kinds of oils are obtained from plants only.
Compounds of turpentine , alcohol , aldehyde , ketone , ester , phenol , alkaline , nitrogen and sulfur are found in perfumed oils while fatty oils contain glycerites of high fatty acids.
There are various uses of perfumed oils some of the major ones are : soaps , cosmetics , perfumes , medicines , biscuit industry , aromatic tobacco , juice etc.
With new researches it has been found that lemongrass is used in the preparation of vitamin ' A '.
they are also used to make perfumes , scents etc.
The art of making scent or perfumes is quite ancient.
Perfumed oils or perfume related thought and the technique to obtain them was first developed in eastern countries such as China , Egypt , France and India where they were prepared from various parts of the plant such as wood , plant and flowers.
Ancient Chinese traveler Fahwan has written in his memory cards that India is a country of perfumed plants , fruits , raisins and grass.
By studying the art of preserving dead bodies in Egypt one gets to know that Egyptians knew the art of obtaining preserving and perfumed oils.
Farsians were the first to obtain perfumed oil from rose flowers.
Imn Rawalin -LRB- 810-617 BC -RRB- who was the emperor of Faristan used to submit 30,000 bottles of rose water every year in the treasure of Bagdad in the form of tax.
In India perfumed elements are used during religious purposes in sutras and vedas.
Buddhists used to bathe the statue of their god with perfumed water.
During Vedic period sandal , camphor , saffron and musk was used.
During Gupta period -LRB- 300-400 BC -RRB- perfumed cosmetics , perfumed hair oil , kajal , cream etc. were used.
Information regarding Indian perfumed elements exists in Pali and Islamic books.
Mughal rulers had helped in the development of perfumed elements in India.
Abul Fazal in the book ' Ainey Akbari ' writes that Akbar the great was extremely fond of perfumes.
His palace always remained fragrant with perfumed flowers and incense sticks.
In Uttar Pradesh perfumed elements were produced in Kannauj , Jaunpur and Gajipur.
The perfume of which ancient people knew was sandal.
Sandalwood and sandal oil were only used in the beginning.
Kannauj , Jaunpur , Gazipur , Lucknow and Pune lead the world in the production of perfumed elements.
Commendable efforts have been done by the Indian government and people for the development of perfumed oils in independent India.
Now the perfumed oil research committee has been merged with Central Indian medicinal plant organization.
these institutions are functioning under ' scientific and industrial research council , New Delhi.
Works are being carried in research institutions for getting good knowledge about the chemical elements present in perfumed oils.
This work was carried first by scientific research centers of various states and many significant plants were successfully cultivated.
Sesame , Pachauli , menthol and arbenis are popular among them.
Other people interested in this sector have also worked at personal level to merge the cultivation of these plants and distillation process.
some time back Central medicinal plant organization have successfully cultivated cytronal grass , eucalyptus , sitiodora , geranium , pachauli lavender plants from semi-professional perspective in Haldwani , Bangalore , Lucknow and Utakamand centers.
Indian standard institution has occupied a good position in the export of perfumed oils from India.
Foreigners have appreciated the qualities of perfumed oils and they are totally satisfied.
While exporting oil to foreign countries their qualities should be properly examined , then only they should be send.
This work has been handed over to the laboratories of ' marketing and examination directorate and inspector ' , India.
Perfumed oils vaporize very quickly which can be easily separated with the help of spread vapor.
There are several methods of distillation.
They are used keeping the nature of product in mind.
Following measures should be essentially taken while doing distillation.
The temperature should be kept low as far as possible.
Lowering of temperature is extremely important because at high temperature the various existent chemical factors in the perfumed oils separate that is at high temperature the elements of perfumed oils lose their stability.
The distillation method of raw materials should be carried in favorable conditions.
The raw material out of which perfumed oil is to be extracted should not be in powder form.
Majority of the factors of perfumed oils , except few are soluble in warm water.
Hence very less amount of perfumed oil is obtained when distillation is carried by adding more water in little amount of raw material.
This method of water distillation is extremely important.
Perfumed oils contain certain quantity of ester.
Longer duration of distillation and by taking more amount of water while distilling , the the ester present in the perfumed oil break into hydro-lime copper acid and alcohol which yields very less amount oil.
Water distillation separates more amount of ester over vapor distillation hence vapor distillation is more significant as compared to water distillation.
Water distillation should be avoided as far as possible or they should be carried for little time.
Vapor distillation is not a good method to obtain perfumed oils from flowers.
Water distillation method or vapor distillation method should be only used to obtain oil from flowers.
Both these methods are good but flower and vapor distillation method is the best in this regard because this method gives good quality of oil and in more amount.
But vapor distillation method should be only used to obtain perfumed oil from flowers at industrial level because this method yields good quality and more amount of oil.
The temperature can also be easily controlled in vapor distillation method.
The raw material should be in such condition that it completely gets dissolved with the raw material while doing water or vapor distillation and it should remove all the elements of the raw material from the perfumed oil.
There is no need to crush or cut little parts of the flowers , leaves , grass and to obtain perfumed oil from them.
But the tough parts of the plants such as wood , seeds , fruits , root or peel should be cut in small pieces or crushed in order to obtain perfumed oil from them so that more and more walls of tissues break and the oil easily comes out with vapor.
After properly cutting or crushing the raw material they should be washed with clean water so that perfumed oil does not evaporate by being vapor.
Before using the roots of orris , leaves of patchouli and roots of vanilla the pieces should be properly mature.
The dry parts of some plants or dry plants preserved during the time of harvesting are beneficial in the form of raw material.
Geranium and osimum filimund - karikum plants are used in dry form to obtain oil from them because more amount of oil is extracted in dry form.
Raw materials should be saved so that vaporization , oxygenation and other chemical processes do not occur because all these processes destroy the amount of perfumed oil in the raw material.
Therefore it is extremely important to save the raw material the the environment effect to get good quality and good amount of perfumed oil.
Water distillation method is the most easy and less expensive technique to obtain perfumed oil and using this method perfumed oil can be extracted from the entire world.
The raw materials are boiled with more amount of water in this method.
When the raw materials are put in boiling water they float at the top or drowns but space is left for vaporization.
This method yields good quality and good amount of oil when worked carefully but when the raw material comes into contact of hot part then the actual fragrance of the perfumed oil gets lost with the heat of raw material.
Water heads are not made during the contact of raw material with vapor while extracting oil using this method.
Another obstacle while using this method is that perfumed oil whose boiling point is more or which are soluble in water can not be easily extracted using this method.
This process of distillation yields more amount of oil and the time involved is less as compared to other methods and hydrolysis is also more.
Thus the rate of distillation process should be organized so that more and more high quality perfumed oil is obtained.
The distillation process done at low rate can be harmful because the oil can not be extracted properly from the raw materials and the amount of oil obtained is negligible.
The hydrocysis process is also very less in the distillation process carried at low rate.
Water and vapor distillation method is particularly popular among the industrialists and industries producing oil is less amount.
The distillation equipment is very small here which is directly heated using fire.
Big distillation pots are heated through vapor jackets or closed helix.
The surface pots are kept on another layer during this distillation process so that they remain away from the boiling water.
This pot is dried with the help of saturated low pressure vapor.
The element to be used as raw material should neither be powdered nor cut into small pieces.
Hence raw materials that is roots , stems or peels etc. should be medium shaped.
The distillation process of oils with high boiling point takes longer duration.
Vapor distillation : - During this process of distillation high pressure vapor more than the pressure of environment enters into the distillation pot.
During this distillation the temperature of pot is much more than the temperature of vapor.
High heated vapor has the capacity to cool that pot and thus less oil is obtained.
Separation takes place because of high pressure vapor.
In India vapor distillation is generally used to obtain turpentine , sandalwood and vetivar oil.
Squeezing method : - This method is used to obtain perfumed oils from the plants of lemon family.
Perfumed oils from oranges , lemon and virgovote are obtained using this method.
Three kinds of methods are used for this.
Sponge Process : - This is an extremely ancient method.
The fruits are cut into pieces using an axe in this method and the substance elements are brought out using a spoon.
Now the peels are soaked or put into water, Later oil comes out.
The peels are kept between sponges to extract oil from them.
The juice thus extracted is collected and finally filtered.
The obtained oil contains high value.
Kule method : - In this method a metal has a hollow pipe which contains spines.
The fruits have to cross these spines only because of which the cells break and the fluid gets collected at the surface.
This method yields even less amount of oil than the sponge method.
Several machines have developed in America and Italy on this principle.
Extraction through solvents : - Despite being a good method it is not satisfying in majority of the matters but prove to be harmful because of the presence of high temperature vapor in perfumed oils the temporary perfumed chemicals are lost.
Sometimes the amount of oil obtained is also very less.
Hence in order to get away from these shortcomings another method is used.
This method is known as solvent extraction which is satisfying as compared to distillation method in majority of the cases.
The solvents used in this method are vaporizing or non vaporizing.
Enflurez at normal temperature : - This method is mainly used in jasmine , tuberose and quite often for oranganicule , Kudeyute etc.
" Chassis " is set one after another above the glass plate with a wooden frame.
Flowers lie between these two glass plates.
The entire fragrance of those flowers are gradually absorbed.
After absorbing all the fragrance the flowers are thrown out.
Jasmine flowers are put on glass plates everyday and the next day they are thrown out.
Tuberose flowers are kept for two-three days.
This chassis is continuously moved up and down.
The flowers are changed till the time they completely absorb the oil.
Extraction through vaporizing solvents : This method is mainly used these days because it is extremely useful.
During this method carbon solvents such as benzene , methanol , acetone , petroleum and ether etc are used.
Before using these solvents they are treated with sulfuric acid and obtained in pure form.
Several carbon solvents are used for this method but petroleum , ether and benzene are mostly used.
The extraction process is done using an equipment which is known as extractor.
In majority of the cases the oil obtained using this method get the color of the flower from which they are extracted.
The color of the oil depends on the color of the solvent used.
In order to remove the colored particles of the oil , distillation is carried in the presence of colorless wax or they are exposed to ultra violet rays.
Although India produces high quality perfumed oils but only few oils are exported abroad.
On the other hand India itself imports perfumed oils worth 17-20 billion every year from abroad.
The entire manufacturing process of current perfume industry is entirely different.
The fragrance of any flower is seen by synthesizing it as to what are the chemical elements which provide fragrance to the flowers.
After preparing those chemicals in the laboratory , the synthesized perfume of the flower is prepared and alcohol cytronelol and geraniatn chemicals are used.
Phenol ethyl methyl ether contains the fragrance of kewar flowers.
According to the present import policy of the government India export 4000 perfumed chemicals from abroad.
These chemicals are brought through international perfume industry.
The preparation of majority of the synthesized perfume chemicals are based on pines.
Indian turpentine oil is commonly obtained from " pinus longifolia ".
Opposite to other countries the turpentine found in India contains 30 % more pines.
The population of the world is continuously increasing and the level of our way of living is also rising with this.
That is why with the passage of time the need for cosmetic materials and perfumed oils are increasing.
Thus we see that there is great scope for perfume industry in the future and this industry is expected to grow perpetually.
Along with developing this industry , more and more quantity of cheap perfumed chemicals needs to be prepared.
The demand for perfumed oils obtained naturally from plants is increasing because the preparation of extracted perfumes in laboratories requires them.
In order to develop this important subject it is necessary to plant foreign variety of plants and trees in large numbers by the various state governments through their forest departments , they should be cultivated and trees should be planted in the form of forests.
For this barren , sterile land should be used.
In order to encourage them the Uttar Pradesh government has given them land at extremely low value for cultivating perfume.
Even today we are confronted with many difficulties which stop us from moving forward.
We face scarcity of high quality raw materials.
Ever increasing price rise becomes a problem in cultivating these plants and extracting oil from them.
Lack of advanced machinery and other facilities always pose hindrance in these sectors.
Ways to grow more and more plants providing perfumed oils and stop the hindrances that reatrd their production are being considered.
Perfume can be extracted from plants.
Several plants are continuously being used in perfume industry and other agencies.
Consequently their specialization in nature is decreasing.
Therefore it is essential to evaluate them after collection for proper use , then only better varieties could be prepared and production techniques equivalent to them could be developed.
In the year 1959 A special organization named central medicinal plant organization was formed.
Its purpose was to assist in the development work of perfumed and medicinal plants and maintain a co-ordination between them.
Indian perfumed oil association also has a significant contribution in this industry.
A technical magazine named " Indian perfumer " has also been started by this association for its overall progress in 1957.
Because of the unprecedented progress in science and technology , there has been such an increase in the production of these perfumed oil crops that not only the domestic demand is met but several products are also being exported.
Apart from sandal lemongrass -LRB- Agya grass -RRB- , Pamrosa -LRB- Gandhej grass -RRB- , geranium -LRB- Bhanda -RRB- , Pachauli linel etc. other various kinds of oil are prepared in south India.
Majority of the total lemongrass oil produced in the world is cultivated in India and this crop is grown on the slopes in rainy conditions.
Citral , a factor of lemongrass oil contains a lot of vitamin ' A ' content.
As a result of the research carried in Kerala University , an excellent variety named " O-D " has been developed.
This variety of plant gives twice the leaves as compared to local variety after 5-6 years of plantation which contain 85-92 % oil content.
As a result of research works carried in other centers , " S D-68 and R.R.L-16 " -LRB- Jammu -RRB- varieties have been issued which are sown in different parts of the country.
The perfume obtained from Jasmine grandifloram plants are expensive.
Ko-1 and pichi varieties of jasmine have been developed by Tamil Nadu agricultural University which contains 0.05 % perfumed oil content.
Jasmine orchards have been planted in subtropical regions which continuously yields flowers for 7-8 months round the year and per hectare production is 10 tonnes.
Nitrogen fertilizers are required 6 times for good crop round the year in that region.
The plantation of barsera delpikiana was first started near Bangalore in Mysore.
they are prepared from both stem and seeds and every year they give around 20 k.g oil per hectare.
National botanical research institute , Lucknow : - Recently there was downfall in the quality of roza demasin flowers in national botanical research institute as they became excessive hot.
Another new plant has been developed for carrying distillation in institute farms and new distillation method has been found which gives 0.03 % amount of oil as per the weight of the flowers.
This plant is small that is why it can be easily moved from one place to another.
Regional research laboratory , Jammu : - Including other centers Japanese mint has been successfully grown by the institute in Jammu.
Adaptation capacity and production related studies have been carried on Menthol Arbesis sponsored by UNESCO.
Guidance has been given by regional research laboratory -LRB- Jammu -RRB- and central medicinal and perfumed plant institute -LRB- Lucknow -RRB- for growing menthol in Haldwani and lowlands of Uttar Pradesh.
The crop becomes ready in 3 years.
Apart from providing employment opportunities to several people every year its production gives 7 billion foreign exchange.
An offspring of Indian agricultural research institute department : - " S-79 " , " S-3839 " and " S30-4 " varieties of Thyme have been developed in the department to increase the production of fennel seed crops.
Good amount of leaves were produced by growing Pusa C 350 variety of coriander developed through hybrid method with sugarcane crop.
The seeds of the other variety " Sheetal " contain a lot of oil content.
National sapling offspring resources bureau , New Delhi : - It is concerned with sapling offspring means.
This organization fulfills sapling related needs of the scientists in the country and abroad.
It is extremely important for us to be sure that the future generations should get a saplings mediums with healthy base and which is error free and which remains ineffective of foolish use of sapling mediums.
Sowa is a winter crop.
Their all plants are used as vegetable and for aroma.
The seeds are famous for their medicinal values and the reason behind theses values is their vaporizing oil.
They are mixed in several medicinal compounds.
Its vaporizing oil with sowa oil  water emulsion proves to be beneficial particularly for cold among children.
Their seeds are also used as spices.
Sowa oil is also used to give fragrance to soaps.
3-3.5 % vaporized oil is obtained from sowa seeds.
Its one part is filled with water and that is why it settles at the surface of the receptor during distillation.
It is majorly planted during winters but it can also be grown during summers.
Open space with full sunshine is good for good production.
For this loamy and sandy soil and land with proper drainage is required.
25-30 trucks of cow dung should be added in the farm before sowing and they should be mixed properly by doing 4-5 times of plowing.
Irrigation suitable drainage should be build in the farm.
sowa is sown between August-November.
This crop should be planted at high place during rains so that the crop does not gets rotten.
A lot of moisture is required at the farm during plantation at the farm so that the seeds settle.
Little irrigation should be done if there is lack of moisture in the farm.
Irrigation should be done at an interval of 8-10 days during summers and after 25 days during winters.
After 3-4 weeks of sowing during first harvesting the weeds should be removed.
First trimming is done after 4-5 weeks of sowing and then after trimming is done after every 15 days.
It often catches drying disease which is caused by a fungus named fuzerium.
Shortness , curling or other kinds of deformation is also seen in them due to virus which reduces production.
Apium Gravioles ver apium the kandol which is known as celery is a plant of " ambeliferry " family.
They are also known as celery with turnip roots.
Their roots are consumed after cooking.
It is a family of around 40 species with yearly or multi yearly herbs and is found is temperate regions or hilly tropical regions.
In France Agraviloyans is cultivated to get seeds and in entire Europe and America for salad.
Their seeds are exported to America , Europe and Japan from India.
Dry mature fruits -LRB- celery seeds -RRB- are spices.
It is used as anti numbness and it energizes nerves.
In India celery leaves and stems are mostly used by Europeans to make salad and soup.
This herb contains glucoside and epin.
Light yellow colored vaporizing oil is obtained from celery fruits which gives a specific kind of smell.
They are known as celery oil in the market and is considered to be useful as a stabilizer and creates unique fragrance.
Celery is a biennial plant in cold climate and hills and there this seed grows in the second year and in plains it grows in a single year itself.
It is a humid loving plant of cold climate.
This crop takes a lot of nutrition from the land therefore it should be supplied with rich manure which is carefully prepared.
Clay soil is not good for this.
The drainage of farm water should also be proper.
The farm should at least be plowed using a tiller for two-three times and made powdery.
The plants should be planted in rows.
The plants are prepared by sowing celery seeds.
The crop matures and gets prepared by April.
The seeds are sown in hilly areas during March-April.
Celery requires a lot of water.
Celery catches some fungal diseases such as early blight , late blight and bacterial blight.
spraying of sulfur and dry lime is suggested to control insects.
No big harmful insect destroys it in India.
Artimecia Palens Wall is a traditional vegetative plant of " compositi " family.
They are used in temples for worshiping and garlands and bouquets are also made.
Flowers of several species of this plant are sold in southern India at small scale.
Perfumed oil of dawan is exported to America.
This crop requires intense sunlight , winter without fog and heavy dew during morning.
Dawan can not even tolerate heavy rainfall but irrigation is required.
Therefore it should be cultivated very carefully.
Red sandy soil which does doesn't holds water is good for its cultivation.
The seeds have so much fragrance that ants make so many holes in them while eating.
Hence its cultivation requires special care.
Their seeds are very small and 6000 seeds weigh around one gram.
Two meter long and one meter wide beds are made for them.
10 kilograms of rotten cow dung manure is mixed in every bed.
No chemical fertilizer is added during this time.
The soil of every bed leveled after mixing the manure.
One gram seed is required for one square meter area.
These seeds are properly mixed in soil of around 4-5 times the amount of seeds.
The sprouted seeds are mixed in dry sand which helps in carrying and holding them.
A thin layer of sand is layered at the top when all the seeds are sown.
Then again it is irrigated.
It starts sprouting by the next day.
The nursery is irrigated everyday with the help of fountain in the first week of sowing.
Within 7-10 days of sowing the plants properly grow in the nursery.
The plants grow well if they are supplied with 10 grams of urea in the third week.
Then after 3 meter long and 1 meter wide beds are made to transfer dawan.
The farm is irrigated one day before the transfer.
Little irrigation is done after plantation.
The farm is again carefully irrigated after the completion of one week of plantation.
Weeds should not be allowed to stand in dawan farms, Weed removing should be done at least 2-3 times in the farm.
Irrigation should be regularly done after every second or third day depending on the climate.
The plants grow with intensity and withing seven weeks the plants start bearing flower buds.
For cultivation the plants with buds are chosen before they start flowering.
After transfer generally all the flowers start flowering within 10 weeks.
The beds are again irrigated.
Because of this the trimmed plants again bear saplings and the crop can be harvested after 1.5 months.
The plants are allowed to dry in shade for 2-3 days before doing the distillation process.
Distillation process takes around 8-10 hours.
Dawan oil is relatively lighter than water.
It carries fragrance similar to fruits.
Currently good business of this oil can be carried.
Artimizia vista is also grown in India.
This oil carries the values of destroying fungus and bacteria.
Basera Despichiana pais is a plant of " bersiresi " family, Sinaili oil is extracted from their wood and fruits.
This tree originated in Mexico.
It was brought to India in 1920 and was planted in Tatbuni a village near Bangalore.
Oil was extracted from the peel of the fruits in Tatbuni.
2.5-3.0 % oil was obtained from wood in Mexico.
While in India 18 % of the oil is obtained from fruit peels.
During trading this oil is known as Mysore sineli oil and Indian lavender locally.
The ripe fruits fallen from the tree are collected and dried in shade.
The fruits are collected for 2.5 to 3 months.
The peels are removed and processed under vapor distillation.
Mysore sineli oil is light colored.
The fragrance of kumudini , lilac lindan , vlosam , vanga , yang yang and sweet p soap can be established in this oil.
It is also used as transparent soaps.
Basera plant grows well on hilly land , sandy and loamy soil.
Sineli trees can be prepared by planting seeds and stems with roots.
Trees with 2-3 years of age are good for stems.
The stems are always taken from mature trees.
The stems are cut in such a way that 5-10 c.m long growth remains on the tree.
Some branches should be left on the tree.
One meter long and 1-3 c.m thick stem is good.
If the stem carries any kind of wound then it should be closed with wet soil.
soil mixed with cow dung is good for this.
Because of this the stem quickly heals wounds and water flow is stopped.
The stem is kept towards top to bottom.
A pit is dug at the middle of the pot and the stem is planted by pressing the stem in soil while planting the stem.
The soil is pressed with hands after planting the stem and the pots are kept in shade preventing them from sunlight and wind.
The stems start sprouting after three weeks of plantation.
The stems get all the roots within next four weeks.
The stems that bear roots are transferred in farms during rainy season.
This transfer is mainly done during the end of August or beginning of September.
Now every fruit is carefully plucked so that the root of the plant does not move or break.
It is kept in a pit.
In the beginning a stick or bamboo is tied with the plant to support it.
Sometimes the plants catches white ants which harm them.
To prevent it the plants should be filled with water immediately after planting them.
The plants are easily planted in the farms and they start bearing new leaves by next May.
The fruits start ripening by the end of July and fully ripe by the beginning of August.
The leaves of the plants shed by November-December.
Irrigation should be done twice a week if there is danger of plants catching white ants.
Rainy water should be collected and filled in pits if the plants are planted in big farms.
Plants are firm and they do not require manure once they are fixed in the land.
The number of flowers increases by supplying them with phosphorus fertilizers.
The amount of crop depends on the age and shape of the tree.
The first crop should be taken only from 10 years old trees.
The branches of the tree are soft and can not bear the weight of a single man.
Hence small children are asked to climb the tree to pluck fruits.
Experienced laborers should be used for this work.
The fruits should be spread and dried at bamboo mats if there is no drying facility.
It is not necessary to remove the seeds and peels from fruits for distillation.
So far India is not attacked by harmful diseases and insects.
Linanul is obtained from its oil.
Whose value in the foreign market is around 500 rupees per kilogram.
Coriander has its origin in Mediterranean ocean region and is grown at large scale in Russia , middle Europe , Asia minor and Morocco.
It is cultivated in all the states in India and it is an important crop in Madhya Pradesh , black soil in southern India and fertile loamy soil of northern India.
It is cultivated in all the districts of Punjab.
The branches , leaves and fruits of coriander give lovely aroma.
The entire plant is used to make chutney when it is small and vegetable curry is garnished with their leaves.
The fruits are powdered and added as spices in different kinds of edible items such as pickles , vegetables , flesh etc.
The fruits are also used to enhance the taste of some sweets , pastries , cakes and items made from tobacco.
In America and Europe coriander is used to give flavor to liquor especially gin.
The market coriander contains a lot of external elements such as stems , dust , fenugreek and paddy.
The aroma and taste found in coriander fruits is because of a kind of surmic oil.
The amount of oil varies according to the source of fruits.
The lack of oil content in Indian coriander is because of the loss of vaporizing oil while drying fruits but this statement has not been proved through experiments.
Still Indian oils have good variety of fragrance as compared to European oils and percentage of ester is also more.
Coriander oil is a colorless , light yellow liquid which has a peculiar fragrance and taste similar to coriander.
Raw fruits and other parts of the plant give little inferior quality of oil.
This oil is mainly used in the form of fragrant in fluids and in cocoa and chocolate industries.
It is used in removing the ill effects of drugs causing fatigue and cramps and in improving the taste of bitter medicines.
Apart from hydrocarbons coriander also contains 19-21 % aliphatic oil which is black , brown , green in color and smells like coriander.
The sodium soap prepared from them are perfumed and produces good lather.
It is soft and green in color.
Coriander is a significant spice which is used in abundance in India.
The details of their production and internal trade are not available.
Majority of the production is consumed within India because of which it is exported in little amount only.
Although crops grown in different regions are of the same species but there is huge difference between the shape , form and quality of fruits.
The commercial qualities are mainly named on the basis of places.
Morocco and Russian species compete with Indian coriander in the export market which are quite valuable.
It is assumed that Indian samples are mostly adulterated with stems , external seeds , particles and dust therefore their value is less though in quality they are no less than Morocco samples.
Coriander crops are sown in mixed which is commonly dependent only on rains.
It is grown as irrigated crop in some regions.
The fruits are smashed before sowing so that fruit seeds separate.
The crop matures after three or 3.5 months of sowing.
Then the plants are plucked along with their roots and the fruits are shed after drying.
Then they are dried in sun , cleaned and then packed in sacks.
In India very less attention is paid at putting manure while cultivating coriander.
From the experience of European countries one gets to know that there is excessive growth in the amount of fruits due to manure.
By the experiments done in Russia it has been found that the amount of oil in fruits have increased with the use of fertilizers.
Coriander catches fungal and rotting diseases , fungus attacks when flowering begins especially when the climate is warm and moist, It can be effectively treated by spraying 0.6  sulfur or bodo mixture.
No control method has been found so far to prevent them from rotting.
No dangerous organism attacks this crop.
Lemongrass oil is one of the significant perfumed oils grown in the world.
The major reason for producing this oil is citril concentration.
India has the monopoly as a major exporter and developer of high quality of lemongrass in the market at some point of time.
Because of the competition with middle and south American countries the export of lemongrass from India has reduced in the recent years.
Although the demand for synthesizing vitamin ' A ' was increasing for domestic use which is considered to be a good opportunity for the propagation of lemongrass cultivation in the country.
cimbopogon citratus is one of the species of lemongrass that are cultivated in India.
It is also known as Malabar or Cochin Vas.
There are two species of east Indian lemongrass.
Cimbopogon flexuosus is one of those species, Its local name is " Cumanna Pulu ", It is also known as red grass.
Their stems are red in color , the leaves from which the oil is produced contain 75 % or more aldehydes.
The aldehydes obtained from this oil are mainly citril.
This oil is a good solvent.
Majority of the fraction of Indian lemongrass is obtained from this red grass.
The other species of east Indian lemongrass is known as cimbropogon flexuosus variety alvicense.
Its local name is " Gella Pulu ".
The cultivation of lemongrass requires warm and humid climate , sunshine and 250-300 c.m rain for the entire year.
The amount of oil in the plant increases due to the presence of high temperature and sunshine.
Lemongrass grows in abundance at the hilly places in Kerala where there is heavy rainfall and they are harvested quite early, But the amount of oil and citril content in the plants growing in such regions are quite less as compared to regions with less rainfall.
Clay soil with sand which has good drainage system is best for the growth of this grass.
They grow well in sandy soil with good manure facility.
The winter season in north India is of longer duration than south India because of which the production of lemongrass in north India is quite less.
The saplings prepared from two kilograms of seeds are enough to grow crops in one hectare farm.
Sowing the pieces in more depth is dangerous because " root rot " disease might spread during winter season.
This work is done during the beginning of rainy season.
In northern India also plants are planted through root pieces during February but proper irrigation facility is required for them because immediate irrigation after plantation is very essential in these situations.
Planting in small pieces in such a way by leaving spaces depends on the fertility of soil and the climatic condition of that place.
It is very essential to remove the unwanted grass of the farm with the help of axe because it affects the nature of oil and their production.
The grass is burnt during winters to increase the fertility of land and to strengthen the plants.
Lemongrass crop turns the soil and brings out air from the crop.
Not much amount of water is required for lemongrass.
Frequent irrigation is required to get good yield in areas dependent on monsoon.
The production and nature of oil is also affected by the harvesting time.
If the grass is harvested early then the amount of aldehyde in obtained oil is very less -LRB- up to 60-70 % -RRB- and it is less soluble.
But later the amount of aldehyde in oil increases to 75 % and the production of oil also increases.
Commonly the oil production in high rainfall months -LRB- June-August -RRB- is very low as compared to low rainfall areas.
The crop is harvested 3-4 times a year.
The lemongrass crop is cut using a sickle.
The age of lemongrass plants depend on the age of the land and climate.
The average lifespan of plants is 6 years.
During these 6 years , the oil production in the first year is low , the oil production increases in the second year , it increases the most during third and fourth year but gradually later the production starts decreasing.
The seeds are collected during January-February.
The crop is left without cutting for collecting the seeds because the crops that are cut smoothly give relatively less seeds.
The rachis is first cut for collected seeds and then they are allowed to dry in sun for 2-3 days.
Later the rachis is beaten to separate seeds.
These seeds are again dried in sun.
The method used for distillation in Kerala is old fashioned and not popular.
The oil obtained through this method is also of inferior quality because here distillation is done directly or through chimney.
Hence " Vapor distillation " method should be used to produce high quality oil.
The grass is cut into small pieces to get maximum production of oil easily.
The production of grass crop and the amount of oil in it depends on the fertility of land , age of cutting grass , condition of grass -LRB- dry or fresh -RRB- and distillation process.
A species of chilotria infects lemongrass.
Their caterpillar is white in color.
The head of the caterpillar is black in color and there are black patches on its body.
It makes hole in the upper half of the plant and eats it while staying there.
It is generally found in the base of the stem.
Drying of the leaves between the stem is its first symptom.
Later gradually the entire plant dries and gets destroyed, Consequently lemongrass production faces huge loss.
The dry stems are burnt during the last days of summer, It kills the caterpillar present in the stem holes.
The oil obtained from actual lemongrass contains 75 % or more fraction of aldehyde.
In India lemongrass is mainly used to separate " citril " and producing " vitamin A ".
In manufacturing it is used as an initial element.
Lemongrass oil is used to develop taste in goods and preparing cosmetics and perfumed goods.
In some countries lemongrass is used to enhance the taste of food.
At some places it is used in tea and also put in bathing water.
The lemongrass left after use -LRB- the element left after extracting oil -RRB- is used to make paper.
It is used as fuel for distillation.
It is also a good source of fertilizers.
It is either composted to be used as fertilizer or it is burnt and the ashes are used as fertilizers.
Its crop has proved to be helpful in stopping the flow of soil erosion.
Simvopogon vinterianus and simnards oil are popular as citronella oil and commercially available as this name.
" Java " variety of oil is obtained by distilling the leaves of sivopogon vinteranius jevit and " silon " variety is obtained by distilling the leaves of simvopogon nords randal.
This oil was exported every year from India.
During the recent years there has been reduction in export and now it is being produced in adequate amount in our country.
Warm climate , bright sunshine and 200-250 c.m annual rainfall and the regions which get shower round the year is good for citronella production.
Excess rainfall and acute dryness is also harmful for it.
The growth is less in shady places.
The leaves become tough which reduces oil and jeranial content.
Extreme chilly weather and snowfall adversely affects it.
The job of providing debts is done round the year , not only during sowing and harvesting.
The preparation of annual credit limitation distribution gets wasted where there is lack of agricultural facilities.
The main job of land development banks is to provide debts to members on land mortgage.
They provide credit facilities under following processes by keeping land , building or agricultural equipment in mortgage from the members.
Providing loans to the farmers at cheap interest rates so that do not get exploited by the owners.
In the ancient times in spite of agriculture , fish farming , hunting of wild animals and collecting food resources was the main occupation of life rearing.
Wet - hot tropical people are by nature conservative.
Hence they are not willing to relinquish their traditional agriculture and the agricultural practice has been going on for centuries.
Under animal husbandry different types of businesses or agriculture is done , such as the silk business , poultry business , beekeeping , fisheries , sheep and goat rearing , piggery etc., Along with agriculture the above forms of animal husbandry are also reflected.
Animal husbandry play a major role in the economic development of the country.
Because of this lakhs of people of the country receive cheap and nutritious food.
India has enormous potential to meet the growing needs of animals.
55 % of the total number of buffaloes in the world , 20 % of the number of goats and 16 % of the number of livestock is present in India.
Sharp increase in the sector of animal husbandry began from the early years of the decade of 1970.
The production of milk in the time from 1947 to 1970 stayed almost stable.
Under the Seventh Plan there has been an increase in the production of milk at a rate of 4.5 %.
Per capita availability of milk in 1950-51 was 124 grams per day which increased to 203 grams in 1997-98.
This advancement in the production of milk has been due to the various livestock development programs implemented by the Centre and the states.
The credit of an increase in milk production goes primarily to Operation Flood programs.
There has been important progress in the field of poultry also during the previous years due to the research and development done by the government and private sector.
There is an important role of sheep - goats in the Indian rural economy.
The contribution of both these is central in the rural economy.
The earnings from the exports of animal husbandry sector and its related products in 1996-97 was Rs 1925 crores.
Among this the export earnings of leather and leather products were Rs 1063 crores.
Looking at the declaration of the prime minister to make India a nation free of starvation in the future ten years animal husbandry and dairy departments have implemented an additional work scheme of rupees 203 crores.
From very early times man has been dependent on agriculture for livelihood.
In most developed and developing countries agriculture is the main enterprise.
Raw material is received for the industries from agriculture.
Also from the export of the substances produced in it foreign currency is derived as well.
In any state agriculture , natural , cultural - social , political , economic and technical etc. there is the conjuncture of all the factors.
Only agriculture presents the combined depiction of all these factors.
Agriculture has come from Agricultura word of Latin Language.
The word Ager means land -LRB- farm -RRB- while the word Cultura denotes farming activity or farm culture.
Like this , in a brief manner the literal meaning of agriculture is from farming culture or farming art.
Hence the literal meaning of Agriculture Typology in Hindi is " Agriculture typological analysis ".
Generally agriculture type refers to the typological model developed in a specific region or interpretation or analysis which are naturally hierarchical.
Prof. Kosowski sir says that ' agricultural diversity ' is the uniformity of the agriculture related properties developed in a special area and specific pattern of agriculture related features are observed in many areas at the same time.
Meaning many areas can be found on the ground under one agricultural diversity.
Hence in the conceptualization of agricultural diversity under the agricultural land use related study social , organizational , technical and production related factors are given special importance.
There is a fundamental difference in the conception of State and diversity.
State is a regional concept which has definite boundaries.
The spatial variations in the State are controlled by the various factors of the environment whereas diversity is a hierarchical concept whose expanse is perpendicular from low till high order.
In the present the unavailability of statistics at all levels is the biggest problem and barrier in the study the studies related to agriculture.
To fix this problem conclusions are drawn based on the data collected by the sample studies and based on these findings itself rules and principles are enunciated.
The classification of agricultural diversity is based on the internal and inherent characteristics.
The intensification of agriculture is controlled by Geo - competence , Geo - productivity , labor employed in agriculture , farm equipment , fertilizers and pesticides , seeds etc.
Like this the subtle knowledge of all the above factors for the determination of agricultural diversity is important and necessary.
Vivid traditional agriculture - under this agriculture agriculture is done in large areas for livelihood on the basis of specialties coming from the ancient times.
Agriculture sector is done in the form of tenancy.
In this the use of land on large scale , lower output per worker , lower commercialization and specialization , no yield besides food grains etc. attributes are found.
Traditional intensive agriculture - in this the nature of agriculture with being of traditional form farming is also done with intensive technique.
This type of agriculture is done at such a low cost mostly in North , South - East and East Asia.
Self land - ownership is found in this agriculture on the basis of human labor.
Low mechanization and less chemical fertilizers are being used on small to micro-level terrain.
In this agriculture there is a description of low-cost and relatively low irrigation.
There is a prevalence of a mixed system of high land productivity as well as food crops and some livestock in this.
Market-oriented agriculture - the main feature of this agriculture is that under this more manufacturing is done with less human labor and high capital costs -LRB- irrigation , fertilizers , use of machines etc. -RRB-.
Its key feature is commercialization.
Highly specialized animal husbandry agriculture - under this type of agriculture priority is given to substances especially meat , bone , milk , wool , leather etc.
This agricultural diversity has become important to meet the urban needs in the outskirts of big cities.
The specialization in this enterprise is being done totally with the help of new tools keeping in mind the significance of the business.
Fish farming , poultry farming is also developed in such type of agriculture.
In the world this kind of agriculture is found in the countries Denmark , Holland , New Zealand etc.
According to Prof. Koharski sir the conceptualization of agricultural diversity is progressing.
There are changes also in the agricultural diversity due to the changes in the environmental conditions.
The study of Dr B. L. Sharma from the state of Rajasthan in the conception of agricultural history in India is worth mentioning.
The map of agricultural diversity displayed by them also features the climatic features of landscape features.
In comparison of the agriculture of the whole State the agriculture of Shri Ganganagar from the perspective of agricultural diversity has developed and commercially progressed.
Rajasthan is a desert state.
This animal husbandry is the main industry and food production is subsidiary.
Social change happens quite slowly and agriculture is also gets affected by these changes.
So it can be said that the prevailing agricultural traditions , conditions and practices are sustainable enough , similarly the farmer also does not take the bold step to change it soon.
Agricultural diversity is a major element in agriculture planning.
A thorough study of the agricultural diversity is necessary for the success of agricultural planning.
It is well known how practical will be the prepared agricultural planning without its overall study.
The agricultural planning done without agricultural-diversity study is totally impractical and misguided and such type of takes the society towards economic problems.
Hence agricultural diversity is not associated with the solutions to agricultural problems but is an important and indispensable step towards making the nation economically prosperous.
If all the major variables of Udaipur are considered then we reach to the conclusion that the per capita land holding size is very low and the tenant-farming practice is also very less.
The benefits of animals is used majorly in the agricultural sector in this State , along with this , the majority of animals is highly prevalent in this region.
The land productivity is as follows.
Also the output also is summed up in the following section.
Based on all these facts , we conclude that agriculture is in its primitive state , that is , to sustain life.
Agriculture can be developed after reforming these deficiencies.
Also events can also be organised for the cause of development.
This technique is practical in all the agriculture farming methods developed so far for agricultural localization.
This method will prove more useful and meaningful in the studies of localization , agriculture counterpart , improvements in agricultural issues and planning etc.
Economies and agricultural practices are controlled by climate , land ownership , relief , soil , size of holding and other factors.
It is quite a difficult work to study the system or the economy developed by the method including all the factors.
These crops and crop enterprises based on agriculture in the crop areas are included in agricultaral economy related to direct and indirect agriculture.
This system is born due to the expansion of agricultural types over large areas.
Hence these agricultural systems are developed because of various agricultural practices or types.
Like this many agriculture types can be under one system and many systems can meet under major agricultural types.
Nomadic pastoral - this economy is found in areas where geographical conditions are not right for crops.
There is natural grass available for cattle fodder.
Mainly these regions are found in arid States.
Such economies are found from the arid region of Sahara to the Arab , Tibet , Central - Asian countries , Mongolia and Tundra.
They are the means of animal survival.
The major occupation is to graze the animals from one location to another location.
Sheep is quite useful for the geographical conditions here.
With which everything wool , meat , milk and leather can be acquired.
Hence the animals in this area are the center of the economic system.
The duration of stay on one site is determined by the natural forage and water.
Kalmyks , Kirgiz , Kazakh , Khep and Mongol etc nomadic tribes etc are found in this economy.
Their home is a tent , cave or snow-cottage which can easily be moved from one place to another place or can be removed.
In the present world there has been a decline of such economic system.
Animal husbandry has been commercially launched there.
The credit of commercial animal husbandry goes to the immigrants.
The permanently settled after getting land ownership in the New World of the natural grass territories.
The private pasture surrounded from all four sides are called a ranch.
Such type of commercial animal husbandry not only developed in United States of America , but is also is central to agriculture also in Uruguay , Australia , Argentina , Brazil , New Zealand and South Africa.
The meat business is particularly significant in America due to the favorable environment for commercial livestock breeding , technological development and local big markets.
Wild boars used to roam around freely in this region of the European immigrants , these were the main source of sustaining life for the original inhabitants -LRB- Red Indians -RRB-.
At first , in the 16th century , the Spanish people developed the work of animal husbandry with their bulls , cows and horses in Mexico , Texas and California , because there was grass that grows throughout the year.
In the present times ranch exists in the Great Plains of the United States , the valleys of the Rockies and the irrigated valleys of the western arid regions.
Sheep breeding is the second major industry for the availability of wool.
In addition to beef cattle and sheep , angora goats are also reared.
Cows are bred in irrigated valleys for Milk.
Argentina - the fertile plains of the Pampas is famous for good natural grasslands , where the country's most famous beef , cattle and a third of sheep is bred.
It is the fourth leading country in terms of sheep and lambs.
In Argentina also , as a result of the availability of an extensive market , more beef -LRB- 85 % -RRB- is consumed.
Australia and New Zealand - when the immigrant Europeans arrived in Australia they brought their animals with them and the number of sheep here today is several times larger than the population of this place.
Therefore , it is Australia's leading economic means.
Here about 16 sheep , and 2 animals are found per person.
60 % of all the exports is achieved from this system.
Australia has the credit of exporting almost 46 % wool and 29 % meat of the world.
Here the ranch are of big size.
Animal husbandry here is of systematic and scientific type.
The growth of this industry is in South Wales , South Victoria and Queensland.
The regional distribution of sheep is determined by rainfall and temperature.
The areas with 50 to 75 cm rainfall are particularly appropriate for the animal husbandry sector.
21  C temperature is favorable for the sheep.
Shifting agriculture - this type of agriculture is the oldest work done on less fertile agricultural soils.
The agricultural system is in hot and wet tropical regions where there is high temperatures throughout the year , fields are prepared by first of all selecting the region on the borders of the forest and then burning by fire.
The average area of the farm used to be upto 2 hectares.
Human labor is used in agriculture.
The fields are not private but public.
Agriculture is done for two years , after that it is left out and another field is selected because due to more rain there is rapid erosion of soil fertility because of which soil fertility is lost sooner.
Production used to be low , more hard work was required and the produced crops used more locally.
Only food crops are produced - millet , maize , rice are main in these.
Secondary crops are beans , tomatoes , Mauniyakh , sugar cane , peanuts and banana.
Poultry is main in animals.
Besides agriculture , fishing , surviving by collecting forest food , hunting are a major enterprise.
The initial steady Agriculture - this agriculture is of primitive type.
Due to lack of fertilizers the land has to be left fallow.
Hot and wet tropical plateau , hot and wet tropical mountainous parts , the plains with hot and wet tropical climate , where the population density is relatively high , there this agricultural system it is more prevalent.
Preliminary sustainable agriculture takes place in areas where rainfall is low and dryness is more.
In these hot and wet tropical plateaus , plantation agriculture -LRB- rubber , palm , coca , etc. -RRB- has developed due to which there has also been a development in the farming method of the local farmers.
This system is more intensive than shifting agriculture.
This type of agriculture has developed in the plantation sectors , and areas close to mines.
Intensive life-giving agriculture - it is found in parts of Asia monsoon agriculture , particularly where geographical conditions are particularly suitable for agriculture.
Food crops are produced intended for local use.
In this agriculture use of modern agricultural equipment is less.
Also the use of chemical pharmaceuticals , fertilizers etc. is less.
Due to excess of population , the production is consumed locally.
Additional production for the market can not be done.
A shortage of bazaar or big markets is also found.
Due to a very low per capita production in this agricultural system , the economic situation of the farmers is very weak.
The rice dominated intensive livelihood farming - this type of farming systems are found in regions with annual average rainfall of 200 cm.
This kind of agriculture is done more in countries which come under monsoon climate.
Such agricultural method is called Sagah.
With the perspective of agricultural land use also the rice sector is found more in South East Asian countries in which Laos -LRB- 95 % -RRB- , Thailand -LRB- 65 % -RRB- , Myanmar -LRB- 60 % -RRB- , Japan -LRB- 42 % -RRB- , India and China -LRB- 25 % -RRB- etc. are important.
Nirwahi less intensive rice agriculture - in areas where rainfall is scant cm there are more rice than other crops.
In the monsoon season , except the dense regions where the environmental conditions are favorable crops like millet , pigeon pea , sorghum , maize etc. are cultivated.
There is a production of cotton and wheat where irrigation facilities are available.
Hence according to the temperature and amount of rainfall there is a majority of only one crop among wheat , millet , sorghum , etc.
Farmers produce two or three crops in a year.
In this arrangement , the production of dairy , cattle , beef etc is less.
The area under pasture region is negligible.
The people of this part are vegetarian.
Special encouragement has been given by the government in recent years towards dairy , cattle rearing , sheep , piggery , poultry , fish , rearing silkworms etc.
The commercial plantation business - this is a specialized agricultural system whose history is nearly a hundred years old , this method developed with the British race of America.
Europe and the U. S. have invested capital in the development of this agricultural system , various types of products are created in this system with commercial approach which includes sugercane , spices , banana , tea , coconut , kehwa , cocoa , rubber etc.
These are produced in gardens with commercial purpose.
The main three regions of plantation agriculture in the world are Africa , Latin America and South - East Asia.
Plantation happens in agriculture farms , that is why its area is larger as compared to the normal holding.
India's major plantation crop is tea , due to which the average area of the gardens are found with 120 to 240 hectares.
The plantation agriculture areas in the countries of the world today , there was no problem of agricultural land there.
The major barrier was of the workers.
Hence agricultural workers had to be imported in the areas of planting in the relatively densely populated countries of the world.
The major exporters of labor have been Africa , India and currently are as well.
A dominance of the Chinese workers is found in Hindeshia -LRB- Sumatra and Borneo -RRB- and Philippines , Japan in the Hawaiian Islands.
The need of workers is more in plantation agriculture.
There is a major requirement of labors here for preparing the fields , planting , plant inspection , fertilizers , crop picking and transport of manufactured goods.
Also , such machines have not yet been invented with which work like using the plants , collecting coffee , cotton and tea picking , cutting , loading , sugar peeling and extracting milk from rubber trees etc. can be done.
Hence the importance of plantation workers in agriculture still remains just the same.
As the foreign market expanded , plantation agriculture got encouragement and it expanded.
In the present circumstances , all those countries became free from where the plantation agriculture produce was exported to the ruler countries.
Despite the independence of these countries , the export of plantation agriculture produce is leading for the international trade , because economic robustness comes from foreign income.
This matter has to be taken care of while deciding the status of the gardens that transportation to different parts of the world from here is convenient and cheap.
The means of transportation are also needed within the gardens because plantations spread in the plantation agriculture is in thousands of hectares and there is a difficulty in collecting the production in that area.
Mostly there are roads in between the large gardens with which produced material is collected in one place.
Roads and rail lines are required to send the produce from these gardens to the market and the port.
Keeping this in mind , almost all the plantation areas are located close to the coastal areas and islands which can make traffic convenient and inexpensive.
The agricultural system and management of the foreigners was far more efficient than the local farmers.
The scientists also used agriculture related knowledge for the abundance of the produce.
All kinds of crops in the plantation agriculture are such whose modification is necessary because the form in which these outputs are received from the gardens , these can not be sent to the markets the same way.
Thus , in view of the economic benefits , it is useful to install adjacent industrially modified machines.
Currently , there has been a special inclination towards plantation agriculture in every country of the world because due to the use of machines in agriculture this is getting started in the tropical and subtropical as well as high places.
The cultivation time is considerably saved by using machines during preparing the fields , planting and harvesting.
In cold regions where the growing season is quite short , expansion of plantation agriculture has not been possible.
Mediterranean Agricultural System - this agricultural system is found in all the continents in the areas with Mediterranean climate , this place has not been named depending on the particular crop but has been done based on the climate.
Sustenance , business , animal husbandry based on the crops irrigated in summers , winter time rainfed agricultural production , the production of vegetable , fruit , food crops ; many methods are adopted under this agricultural system.
This is the only part of the world where coastal plains , high mountain terrain , narrow valleys and small plains are found together.
Because of regional variation various agricultural enterprises like food production , fruit production and sheep - goat rearing etc. are adopted in these areas.
It rains during the winter season and the summer season stays dry in this agricultural land.
Due to rains and regional differences in the amount and time In part because of of precipitation and environment.
Generally in these oceanic land areas management cultivation of both kinds , commercial and sustainable cultivation is carried.
Both these systems of mutual and regional significance are determined and regulated by the amount of rainfall , proximity to markets , agricultural skill and with the help of government.
Gum and alcohol in Greece , oranges , olives and alcohol in Spain , oranges in south California and vegetables during winters are found in abundance.
Further , dry summers are quite appropriate for the production of fruits and vegetables.
Here all the vegetables of temperate climate are grown.
Along with fruits and vegetables , fodder crops , alfalfa , werch , clover , kupine etc are also cultivated.
Fodder cultivation is totally dependent on climate.
Here pastures are used for a short time.
since there is intense heat in the lower regions and winter rains in hilly regions it gets less time.
In the world high percentage of goats , sheep , pigs and other small animals are found in the nearby countries of Mediterranean sea.
Here poultry industry has also been developed at large scale.
Milk and cattle rearing is the major commercial work in the nearby areas of the town.
Here , some areas have preponderance of butter and cotton cheese while fresh milk is supplied in local areas.
The production of un-irrigated plants and creepers are major cultivation of Mediterranean sea region.
Olives , dates and grapes are included in this method.
These trees and creeper crops are the major productions.
Olive is the most significant among them.
All the geographical conditions for olive production are available here.
90 % of the world's olive is produced in Mediterranean sea regions.
The second major crop is grapes.
Grapes are grown in abundance in the form of dry farming in some parts of Mediterranean basin , south Africa , Australia and Chile.
This method was developed as a result of Commercial food and agricultural production technology.
This kind of farming is found in expanded dry and humid regions of mid latitudinal grass.
The soil here is more fertile due to the deposition vegetation and ice.
As compared to other systems , agriculture includes limited regions.
due to lack of population the per person production is quite more.
Local consumption is very limited.
Therefore a large amount of food grain is left for commercial purpose.
Contrariety is found in the commercial production of food grain & rice.
While wheat is the major exporting cereal of international market.
Crop rotation method is the chief specialty of this place in agricultural use.
This change helps in up keeping the fertility of soil.
For example a form contains rotation method for six years where oats in the first year , turnip or potatoes in the second year , again oats in third year and for the next three years grass is grown.
There is maximum application of capital in the mixed agricultural system.
This cultivation requires both capital and labor.
Cyclic rains are received throughout the year in the form of light showers which is quite beneficial for the farm.
successful production and cattle rearing both are carried together.
Crops are produced for feeding cattle.
In Europe and United states the populations is spread on farms.
On few parts of the farm , houses of farmers , shades of cattle , stores of fodder and cattle stable are found.
Life sustaining crop and cattle rearing cultivation - This cultivation system was developed in northern Europe.
There has been such an advancement in the current developing times that this kind of agricultural system in the world has transformed in the form of commercial crop and cattle rearing agriculture.
Just a single crop is grown because of excess cold and dry weather conditions.
One has to adopt cattle rearing due to the helplessness of growing a single crop in a year.
Today , along with raised standard of living , the demand for dairy products has also increased extraordinarily.
Which means reform in the variety of cattle , separately developing the varieties of flesh and dairy cattle.
As a result of the development of machines and refrigerators that rear milk and create other objects and current reform in cattle varieties the dairy industry has come up at a scientific level.
Further , in this system the invention and development of swift vehicles has proved to be a boon.
Specialized gardening cultivation - Such cultivation is carried specially in the densely populated nations of north western Europe , Great Britain , Denmark , Belgium , France , Germany etc.
Under this method , crops -LRB- vegetables , fruits , flowers etc , -RRB- are cultivated.
In this method the size of the farm is small.
It is called ' truck farming ' in United States of America.
Here , the size of farms are bigger.
In this situation , right amount of water at the right time , manure , medicines and other equipment are required to get adequate production from farms.
Therefore , only skilled farmers with expertise in vegetable and fruit production are hired.
India also has favorable geographical conditions for this system -LRB- adequate temperature , sun light , multiplication time , humid climate and appropriate soi.
As a result of this appropriateness , fruits and flowers are grown in small farms and orchards.
Potatoes , onions , cauliflower , turnip , aubergine , lady's finger are significant vegetables.
In the recent years , there has been revolutionary development due to the increasing demand for vegetables , urbanization , reforms in seeds of flowers and fruits and industrialization.
Man has been doing cultivation since ancient times.
Agriculture has been an economic activity of humans.
The agricultural techniques changed with changing times.
In several regions of the world , agriculture is still carried using ancient methods but it has taken a commercial form in developed regions.
This is the reason why several methods are used for agricultural work in the world.
McCarthy while defining agriculture says that agriculture is an objective oriented activity of producing crops and cattle rearing.
It is clear that as per the boundaries of agriculture , primary activities such soil nutrition , soil use , crop production , gardening , cattle rearing , irrigation , fish culture are included.
Agriculture is still a life sustaining occupation in the areas where there is low growth activity but managed and commercial cultivation is carried in areas with developed economy.
It is not proper to compare American agriculture with Indian agriculture.
A complete commercial form of agriculture is found in United states of America which is among the major industrial countries of the world while India has mixed form of Agriculture where farmers grow some crops with commercial perspective.
The cultivation of tea is appropriate only on slopes.
It is clear that due to the unevenness of physical and human factors in the world , the presence of multiplicity in the form of agriculture is natural.
The production of vegetables , fruits , flowers , milk etc. is commonly seen around the town while in the remote areas there is prevalence of agricultural activities such as cereals and cattle rearing.
The region where a prevalence of a specific kind of farming is done becomes the identity of that region.
The German scholar Wan Theanin first tried to explain the localization of modern agriculture and later several scholars played significant roles in this sector.
The profit gained from crop production determines the economic prosperity of a farmer , therefore the selection of crops is done keeping in mind the place of production and market i.e the distance between production and consumers because the profit that is gained from additional yield becomes the basis of the localization of agriculture.
The profit due to the agricultural products are jointly affected by the production cost and transportation cost.
Further , the localization of agriculture is also affected by the socio-cultural system.
The theory of localization of agriculture was first propounded by J. H. Wan Thunen himself on the basis of his knowledge of agriculture in 1826.
This German scholar through the scientific method carried at his Maclawerg agricultural farm came to the conclusion that economic elements are more powerful as compared to the physical elements in the localization of agriculture.
Wan Thunen propounded his theory on the basis that the use of agricultural land increases with the increase in distance from the market.
He also believes that the volume of land use i. e. the form of getting more production through more investment also changes with the distance and it signifies that some underlying aspect is responsible for this.
Crop production affects several physical , social , cultural and economic factors but market is the most significant of all because the increasing distance from the market greatly impacts the density of agriculture and structure of land use.
According to the increasing distance from the market from all sides the profit of crop production will always become less.
Because the transportation cost will keep increasing.
Wan thunen believes that only those crops are grown on a piece of land which provide more profit.
The increasing distance from the cities and town has resulted in the reduction of production and profit and it has also changed the structure of land use and selection of crops.
The profit decreases due to the increasing transportation cost on the outskirts of towns and it leads to the -LRB- prevalence of cattle rearing.
Opposite to this , there is more scope for profit due to the less transportation cost if it is near the towns and it also develops dense land use along with gardening , milk production and dense agriculture.
On the basis of his lonesome experience , Wan Thunen has tried to explain that market is the root of the localization of agriculture which determines the structure of agriculture though this fact is not applicable everywhere.
Losh criticized the theory of Wan Thunen and explained that it is not possible to generalize of this basis.
It can be implemented only in some situations.
Yet it is accepted that Wan Thunen has tried to explain some aspects of modern market prone agriculture.
In 1996 , Mccarty and Lindberg propounded the theory of most favorable economic conditions and limitations.
The favorable nature of economic factors gradually decreases with the increasing distance from this region , consequently the production cost increases.
Distinctness also appears in the form of agriculture.
Several categories of agriculture develop due to this change.
The conception of this theory in physical authentication is more near to truth therefore it is more acceptable.
Mccarty and Lindberg included all the essential elements for the description of his theory such as land , total cost incurred , labor , transportation , irrigation etc.
They believe that the production limit shall be determined in accordance with the market value.
In such situations the milk producer has to make sure whether he would supply milk in its original form or transform it into cotton cheese , butter etc. so that more profit can be gained.
Hence the farmer takes his decision as per his profit.
The profit will be decided on the result of difference between cost incurred and supply cost.
Such situations are visible only near the towns in our country.
Olaf Johnson studied few ideologies of Thunen's presumptions in 1920.
By studying it Johnson came to the conclusion that the town or village situation puts clear impact on the structure of land use.
According to him , dense cultivation is done in the nearby areas outside the town or village where crops like vegetables , fruits , flowers are primarily grown.
The vegetables growing outward from this internal vasculum such as potatoes and some profitable crops such as tobacco , fodder etc are prevalent.
Huver presented his theory of agricultural localization in the year 1948 which depends on the local structure of economic activity.
At the place of lone market he has considered the presence of five nearby markets.
Further , he has described land use in the situations of mutual competition.
Milk is a substance that perishes very soon and it requires nearby market and fast transportation.
This is the reason , it is produced near all the towns.
Opposite to this , due to the good portability and relatively less transportation cost of wheat and legumes they can be produced in far flung areas relative to the market.
Thus , difference can not appear in the basic structure of land use due to the presence of several markets and the land revenue determines the land use.
The regions of natural boundaries and favorable conditions of crop production do not remain same all the time.
In due course of time , because of the technical advancement , the situation of resourcefulness of soil and production capacity of soil and concerned cost elements keeps changing and along with this changes the natural boundaries and favorable conditions of the regions of different crop productions.
For example in the current times due to the invention of wheat varieties getting prepared quickly , it can be grown even in more colder regions.
Only that crop will be produced in the regions with favorable conditions which gives more profit.
In majority of the agricultural areas , farmer prepares more than one crop in a field.
And the major is reason is that farmers get different kinds internal saving bu growing several crops together.
It gives many kinds of profit such as crop rotation for proper land use , proper utilization of crops , labor and machines , security from total damage of a specif crop etc..
There is similar significance of variation of economic revenue in the localization of agriculture as it is of a regional variation of labor in any labor intensive industry or of a regional variation of power in a power intensive industry.
The fruit as well as the plant of coriander are beneficial.
It is used in a variety of ways.
It is sold at good prices in the market because of its qualities.
All the farmers cultivate it and earn profit by selling even its green leaves.
After cutting the leaves the plants are left as a last crop to bear fruits.
Its fruit is used in the form of spice.
Its leaves and fruits are used in the form of herbs and spices.
Its fruits -LRB- seed -RRB- are used in the form of roasted or un-roasted spice to make curry powder , sauce and spices.
Coriander is extensively used in India.
The global production of coriander seed is around 6 million tonnes.
The major exporting countries are India , Turkey , Romania , Morocco , Iran and China.
Its major importing countries are middle east , south east Asia , america , Britain , Germany etc.
On an average India produces around 3 million tonnes annually.
While India is the biggest producer it is also the biggest consumer and exporter.
Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh are the major producing states of India.
Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh produce around 54 % and 17 % coriander respectively.
In India coriander is grown in many forms.
It can be cultivated in all the three crops Rabi , Kharif and Zaid.
In the kharif season farmers sow it by August and September and in Rabi it is sown in October and November.
While it is sown as zaid crop in the month of February.
Zaid crops give better prices for green leaves.
The farmers get the stems of the coriander cut in spite of plucking them from the root.
They earn by selling the stems and leave the crop which yields fruits after selling the stem thrice.
Although one has to pay special attention on irrigation in Zaid.
There are several varieties of coriander.
coriander is basically a rabi crop but it is also grown as a zaid crop.
In majority of the parts of India it is a rain based crop therefore it is grown in the form of pure or mixed crop.
In the southern states it is cultivated in both the seasons.
It is cultivated firstly during May to August and secondly during October to January.
similarly the second week of October-November is also considered appropriate for the cultivation of coriander.
There is no need of adopting a special method for the cultivation of coriander.
The sprouting is as good as brittle is the soil.
If coriander is being cultivated in the kharif season then one should take care of the following things.
Because during that period it can rain anytime.
Because of the heavy rains soil coats on the crops and it affects sprouting.
The cultivation of kharif season should be done taking care of the fact that there is good arrangement for water in the farms i. e. water should not stand in beds.
If coriander is being cultivated in the zaid season then it requires more water.
In such situations small beds should be made.
One should be careful regarding the amount of coriander seeds.
The amount of seeds are increased in the regions where coriander leaves are sold.
On an average 22-25 kilograms of seeds are sown per hectare through sprinkling method.
If coriander is grown in garbage then 15 kilograms of seeds are sufficient.
Coriander should be sown in rows.
If the temperature of soil is 17 degree at the time of sowing then it is considered good because this temperature does not affect sprouting.
Coriander seeds are treated before sowing.
In the indigenous method neem oil is mixed with its seeds.
Similarly coriander seeds can also be purified by mixing them with fungicide.
There should not be more use of chemical fertilizer in the cultivation of coriander.
It is more beneficial to use organic manure in the cultivation of coriander.
For getting surplus production , 15 quintal compost manure should be put before ploughing the field.
Later , during the second ploghing , 50 kilograms of neem manure should be put with sulfate and should be ploughed gently.
While sowing it is beneficial to add five kilograms  acre of magnesium.
The plants remain green if organic manure is used.
Irrigation is the most important aspect in coriander cultivation.
While irrigating one should be careful that there isn't much water in the beds.
Coriander requires negligible water during Kharif season but one has to be careful while irrigating coriander during zaid season.
If it takes longer for the coriander fruits to ripe then it should be irrigated one more time after 125 days.
It makes the grains strong and their weight also increases.
A lot many weeds erupt along with coriander crop.
These weeds affect the growth of plants.
In such situations weeding should be done when coriander plants carry 2-3 leaves.
While preparing the field for weed control , the farm should be ploughed and left for some days.
It dries all the weeds.
They should be plucked and put out of the field.
Weeding should be done twice for weed control.
Coriander crops are affected more by insects.
One should be careful about this during zaid crop.
Though kharif crop also catches insects but there is less fury of insects in rabi crops.
Chaumpa insect generally attacks three crops.
They affect during flowering.
Microzyme , sulfur is sprayed to control it.
Building fumes near the farm is also beneficial.
In an organic way , spraying a solution of neem oil and water is quite beneficial.
Coriander crop catches several kinds of diseases also.
Sandy loamy soil is affected more by wilting disease.
It destroys the root of the plant and the plant fades and becomes dry.
Similarly coriander also catches stem wound disease.
Here , the upper portion of the plant dries and becomes infected.
Similarly coriander also catches powdery mildew.
It is a fungal infected disease.
In the initial period of this disease , the leaves and branches carry a white flour like substance.
The leaves turn yellow and curl when the impact is severe.
0.1 % of bevestine can be sprayed to control it.
Severe cold climate can also destroy coriander crops.
Little irrigation can be done if there is scope for severe cold.
Coriander crops are sold as leaves in some areas.
In such situations the leaves can be cut when the farm becomes wet after first irrigation.
After cutting the leaves , irrigation and top urea dressing should be done.
If one wants to take only the coriander fruits then it should be harvested after 100 days when the fruits start drying.
During this period the seed bunches become brown.
After the harvesting , the crop should be dried in the open in shade.
The grains are separated and cleaned when then dry completely.
The farmers in the eastern region of Uttar Pradesh get double earning by sowing coriander along with winter sugarcane.
Sugarcane are affected less by insects if they are sown with coriander.
It not only gives good production of coriander but also 5-6 quintals of coriander are obtained in one acre of farm.
Coriander is sown with winter sugarcane by 15th December.
The experts believe that the sugarcane sown in winters give 20-25 % more production than the one sown during spring.
Flowers and betel leaves are grown in Varanasi and rest other areas , but people were unaware of banana cultivation.
They themselves grew only wheat and paddy initially.
Thus people considered farming to be a loss making deal.
Bananas are reaching the markets through trucks from Barabanki.
The farmers of this area have become attracted towards banana cultivation and they are improving their economic condition by cultivating bananas.
ShivKumar says that he came in touch with NAIP during 2009.
In the beginning he could not understand the agricultural scientists and officers.
For the first time in the year 2009 , paddy and wheat were sown in 0.60 hectare land through SRI method while banana was cultivated on 0.15 hectare land.
When the G9 variety of banana was grown in the field for the first time then some farmers made fun of this.
The scientists adopted the said technique and there was huge paddy and banana production despite late arrival of monsoon.
After paddy , they grew wheat through zero till method during rabi season which saved cost.
Sowing wheat without ploughing once gave disappointment but this experiment seemed to be good when adequate production was obtained.
They kept cultivating banana along with paddy and wheat.
Thus 1,63,500 INR was obtained from a total production of 0.15 hectare land.
They established a paddy mill from the saving done by selling banana crop.
Discussions of agriculture is also carried along with obtaining rice from paddy.
There should be good system for water drainage in the field.
Banana can not be cultivated in excess acidic or alkaline soil.
similarly pits should be dug and cow dung manure should be essentially put in it before planting trees.
It always gives strength to the plants.
5 grams of thimate insecticide should be put in the pit.
Banana crop requires more water.
In such situations it is quite beneficial to irrigate through drip technique.
If the farmers carry the cultivation by considering the suggestions by agricultural scientists then certainly they will be successful and farming would be a profitable rather than a loss making deal.
Some farmers of Raibareilly are also cultivating bananas.
Seeing its profit , the farmers of the nearby districts have become attracted towards it.
Very soon Uttar Pradesh can be the number one producer of banana.
A farmer committed suicide by being upset due the destroying of crops due to rains and hailstones.
It is being said that he was in distress since the destroying of gram crops due to hailstones.
On Tuesday morning , farmer Govardhan Rathore of Kharpa village , Jirapur tahsil was found hanging in his farm's well.
An after the farmer had committed suicide , the chief minister ShivRaj singh Chauhan had come to the nearby Chamarkhera village to get the review of the loss occurred.
In front of him the local administrative officers were telling the farmer to be a mad and ill person.
The crops were destroyed most in Jirapur Tehsil because of the rains and hailstorm during Friday and Sunday.
Despite this , nobody has come to do any survey till date in several villages.
There has been no survey even in the deceased's village Kharpa.
With the arrival of summers , several varieties of mangoes have come up in the market for mango lovers.
Currently , only the mangoes of southern India are in market.
Although , because of the changes in climate , the crop production has been relatively less than the previous year.
Those concerned with mangoes' business in Azadpur fruits and vegetable market say that the mangoes that are seen in the market now are coming from Andhra Pradesh and Kerala.
Mangoes are being supplied from Andhra Pradesh's Warangal , Vijaywada and Vijaynagar.
Amongst them are safeda , Peerkaman , Ratnagiri's Alfanso , surkha and three varieties of mangoes from Kerala.
Further , safeda mango is also being supplied from Hyderabad.
Amit Gidwani concerned with mangoes' business in Azadpur market says that 6 kg packets of Alfanso mango is coming in bulk at Rs , 350.
There is a little more increase in its price in retail market.
Because of the changes in climatic condition , this time mango crops have matured 15 days prior to its usual timing.
He says that southern mangoes would stay for one more month in the market now.
By the end of May , dussehri , chausa and Langda mangoes would arrive from Uttar Pradesh.
One more businessman , Ramesh says that mangoes are a bit costlier now.
That is why now they are not being sold much.
Their price increases it retail market because they are quite expensive when bought in bulk.
That is why mango lovers are now buying mangoes just to get a taste of it.
The plants should be kept as per their requirement.
Some plants require more sunlight such as bougainvillea , adenium , ferkeria , morpankhi etc.
similarly some plants stay well in shade such as alpinia , aglonima , filodendron , defenwechia , dresina etc.
Some plants require semi-shade.
The plants are - arica palm , cycas , camellia , some species of bamboo etc.
Morning sunlight is very good for semi-shade plants.
The shade plants are also used for interior decoration.
It is very good to have two sets of such plants inside home for decoration.
Keep one set of plants in open air -LRB- where there is sunlight -RRB- and they can be kept inside after some days.
If plants with colorful leaves are kept under the shade of a tree then they get natural air.
Further , the color of plants also remain better.
One should be careful that there isn't much sunlight there.
Various species of cycus are now available which look beautiful and can be arranged in a variety of ways.
Similarly , moneyplant which is also called pachira is considered quite auspicious from the point of view of vastu.
Several species of ficus are grafted to make designer plants.
They are also very attractive to see.
The protest of national farmer labor organization continued for the 18th day -LRB- Friday -RRB- also in the Chaudhri Charan singh park.
The chairman of the organization , Sardar V. M. singh said that the goal of the movement is not only to give thee clearance of their dues and sugarcane price but also to bring back the farmers who are leaving farming due to exploitation.
He said that a grand Panchayat of the farmers has been called on Friday where a large number of farmers will be involved.
He was addressing the farmers present at the event.
He said that though India is a agricultural dominant country but the farmers here are the most troubled.
The government wants the farmers' land on less than the actual price for establishing industries and colonies for the industrialists.
He said that the situation is this that even the sons are running away from farming seeing the financial crunch of their fathers.
The politicians are not going to give anything other than snatching hence fight yourself till death.
The poet Dr. Hariom Pawar filled enthusiasm amongst the farmers through his poetry at the protest.
Gram is the major edible source of a supernumerary population of the world.
It is also a big source of income for the small farmers.
For quite a long time the agricultural scientists have been trying to know how its quality should be improved , how can it be made nutritive and how can its production be increased.
Their hard work now seems to be fruitful.
The international team of scientists including the Indian agricultural scientists have been successful in studying the genome of gram.
They have analyzed 90 various varieties of gram genes including the most popular kabuli -LRB- CDC frontier -RRB-.
This achievement will help in improving the quality , bringing more genetic diversity and making them disease and dryness resistant by reforming the varieties of gram.
According to a research paper published in nature biotechnology , for gene analysis the scientists have chosen 90 species of gram found in around 10 various countries.
It also has some wild varieties.
Apart from the genome this paper also has the description of special works by all the genes and it is also described how persistent production can be determined by improving crop through gene analysis.
The international crop research institute , Hyderabad is guiding the international team.
This institute researches the crop grown in semi dry tropical regions.
The teams of scientists have identified around 28,286 genes in kabuli gram.
The genetic basis of gram can be strengthened through genome.
with this the farmers engaged in gram cultivation can cope in a better way with the challenges of climatic changes arising due to temperature increase.
After soybean , gram is the second biggest pulse crop of the world.
It is cultivated in around 1.15 billion hectare area of the world.
Majority of the cultivation is done by those small and poor farmers of semi dry tropical regions who are deprived of resources.
According to Dr. Rajiv Varshney , the Indian scientist associated with this project , reform can be brought in the breeding techniques by shortlisting good genes of gram through gene study.
Now , 4-8 years are required to develop new varieties of gram through traditional breeding.
Adopting the technique based on genome analysis prepares new varieties in half the time.
Apart from being the largest producer of gram , India is also its biggest consumer.
In on around 66.70 million hectare region of the country , 53 million tonne gram is produced.
Despite the increase in the production of gram in the country , there is reduction in the area under its cultivation.
Initially gram was sown in around 75.70 million hectare area.
Now , it is grown only on 66.70 million hectare area.
Gram is grown at a large scale in six states of the country namely - Madhya Pradesh , Rajasthan , Maharashtra , Uttar Pradesh , Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh.
91 % of the total gram production of the country comes from these states only.
Due to the expansion in irrigation facilities in the northern states wheat and mustard is being cultivated at the place of gram in a bigger area.
These figures clearly reveal that there is great scope for gram production in the country.
But one has to adopt appropriate strategies for this.
In this regard the genome analysis of gram keeps special significance for India.
With the help of improved varieties after gene analysis , the Indian farmers will not only be able to increase gram production but will also increase their earning.
Being the cheapest source of protein gram plays a significant role in tackling starvation and malnutrition.
Crops like gram are also important in tolerating the shocks due to high temperature in the world.
Hence in order to ensure food security for future we have to pay more attention on gram cultivation.
The food grain storage capacity of Bihar , the state producing 70 million tonne paddy is even less than 7 million tonne.
The farmers of the state are compelled to sell their crops in open market on less than their actual prices because of withdrawal of the FCI from governmental purchase.
The cheap paddy of Bihar is reaching the rice mills of Uttar Pradesh and Punjab.
The situation has become more worse due to the unavailability of private investment for building granaries against the promises of the state government.
On the other hand , the government has closed the markets long back because of which there is no place for the official sale of agricultural produce.
The situation is so worse that the paddy of 2011-12 season could not be sold yet then how can the paddy of current season 2012-13 be sold.
The food and ration minister shyam Rajak has no answers for this.
Yet he has appealed the farmers of the state to sell the paddy in the open market at less than the support price.
The actual food storage capacity of the state is around 6.45 million tonne.
They include the granaries taken on rent for state storage council , national storage council and Indian food council.
The state has almost no mills for building rice from paddy.
The state government has closed the market system long back.
Which means there are no government markets in the state.
This is the reason , the paddy farmers of the state are selling their produce at very low prices to the private businessmen.
The paddy of the farmers living near the border of Uttar Pradesh are bought by the state's businessmen at 30 % less than the support price.
Currently the support price for paddy is 1250 rupees.
There are more number of rice mills in Uttar Pradesh.
According to a senior officer of the central food ministry , two years back in Bihar it was decided to build a granary of 3 million tonne capacity.
Formalities were also done by issuing tender for 90 thousand tonne capacity.
The grand Panchayat of farmers under the Indian farmers Union -LRB- IFU -RRB- has come up on parliament street.
The farmers decided to remain there till they agree to the demand for asking right prices for the crop.
The national spokesperson of IFU , Rakesh Tikait said that the farmers movement is reminding us of Mahendra Singh Tikait.
The farmers have started coming to Delhi on the same lines.
Now they have entered the Delhi border with 25 tractor food stuffs.
They have decided that the protest will not end on small conditions.
The committee held under the chairmanship of the council of economic advisory of the Prime minister handed over its report regarding making sugar industry control free.
On the basis of this the government has agreed to make sugar industry partially control free.
But this decision is not in the favor of sugarcane farmers or consumers but in the favor of sugar mills.
Ending the compulsion to sell levy sugar will yield a profit of at least 10 % to the sugarcane mills.
Not having sugar release order and handing over sugar to the market , especially on festive occasions will lead to the willfulness of rice mills and can increase sugar prices and the consumers have to directly bear its brunt.
It will lead to fluctuation in sugar prices in open markets and the government will have no solution to stop it.
Thus sugar mills can also import raw sugar if just 10 % tax is kept on imported sugar.
The sugarcane producing farmers have to bear its brunt.
The Rangarajan committee had recommended to stop the rights that the state government has in the form of state advisory price for determining the sugarcane price but it was not approved.
Further the distance between sugar mills was also duly kept.
It could be possible only because of the strong opposition of agricultural experts and farmers.
In the recommendations of the committee it was proposed to associate sugarcane prices with sugar recovery which was against the benefits of sugarcane farmers of north India.
Indeed , there is need for substantive reform in sugar region so that poor citizens get cheap sugar and the sugarcane mills get no harm.
But the interest of the sugarcane producing farmers were ignored in the sugarcane policy.
The sugarcane producing farmers have not been given profitable price and the payment of their sugarcane price is also not being done on time.
It can destroy farmers.
The argument of some leaders that partially making sugar control free will help the farmers in payment has no strength.
Can they say whether the farmers are being given any other donation in addition to the set sugarcane pr e ?
It is also a noteworthy subject that the appropriate and profitable sugarcane price of the central government which is 170 rupees is neither appropriate nor beneficial.
It is even 110-120 rupees less than the declared sugarcane price of the Uttar Pradesh government which is 280-290 rupees.
For the past one year the prices of labor , diesel , fertilizers , ploughing and harvesting have increased because of which the estimate of sugarcane production price has increased to 314 rupees  quintal from the last years 270.
Thus , the farmers are getting sugarcane price even less than the production cost while according to the recommendations of the chairman of national farmers council Dr. Swaminathan , the government should determine the sugarcane price up to 1.5 times more.
The sugar requirement in the country is 220 million tonne while its production is 250 million tonnes.
The granaries also have last year's 60 million tonne.
This is beyond our understanding why the import tax from abroad is reduced and raw sugar is being imported.
The sugar mills wants to get rid of it by freeing the reserve area for sugarcane.
If it is fulfilled then the sugar mills will be able to purchase sugarcane as per its wish even outside the boundary of 15 kilometers.
It will lead to a battle between mills and co-operative mills will not survive before private mills.
According to the Uttar Pradesh Sugarcane -LRB- supply and purchase regulation -RRB- the sugar mills have the right to buy sugarcane from a specific area.
The sugarcane of some farmers can remain the farm because of its end.
Bustar is famous for mahua liquor.
But now , it is also used to make edible items such as pickle , chutney , laddoo , chikki and vinegar.
It is also being used to make cake.
For the past two years experiments are being carried in the public science center , Mudpar village for making edible items from mahua.
The biotechnology department of Delhi is also researching on the same.
The meaning results of this research have now started to come up.
Initially the center only made mango and lemon pickles but now pickles , chutney and laddoo are also being made from mahua.
The rural women are formally being trained for this work.
The in-charge of the center LalaRam Sinha said that he had heard from the elders of the village that pickles and chutney are made from mahua.
Therefore he himself first experimented this.
After the success , he is now training the women.
Homely women and self help groups can adopt this as a job.
He said that now markets are also being searched for this.
We do not know the qualities and disadvantages of several medicinal plants but they can prove to be life saving for us.
One such medicinal plant is pipli which is found to be quite effective in destroying harmful fungus Candida.
You should know that the candida fungus affecting most of the people affects the mouth , neck , edges of lips and the area under the joints.
Under the innovation project of Delhi University , research is being carried on the effect of plants that deactivate candida fungus.
The mentor of this research is Jawaharlal Nehru University's professor Prof. Tulika Prasad.
The research carried with the association of life science's Asst. Professor Dr. Hardeep Kaur will very soon reach its last stage.
Dr. Kaur told that the bodies of 80 % of the people already carry candida fungus but it does not harm them.
But if the resistant capacity of our body starts decreasing then it becomes active and makes the body severely ill.
This fungus reduces the resistant capacity of the body in surgery , T. B. and any kind of infection.
It is more harmful for the women because women are more prone to fungal infection.
If anyone has the longing to do something in adverse conditions and if there is availability of technique then nothing is impossible.
Seeing sandal and gmelina arborea trees in the deserted land of Thar where trees couldn't be seen for miles is no less than a miracle.
Rare plants are grown in a Narayan garden , situated around 11 kms away from golden town and several ayurvedic herbs are also being grown there.
Narayan garden has been honored several times for cultivating rare plants in extreme conditions and giving good yield.
Further , Dilip singh Rajawat has also been awarded as a progressive farmer for his qualities.
The Narayan garden expanded in 300 bighas will soon have a contract with Kajri.
The officers of the Madhya Pradesh's agriculture department claim that despite hailstone the state will produce more wheat than the previous year.
In the national conference organized by the Central agriculture ministry , the agricultural enterprises of MP have estimated to have produced 162 million tonne wheat this time.
It is 17 million tonne more than the previous year.
Madhya Pradesh has received Krishi Karman award for the record production of last year.
In the national conference , the agricultural co-coordinator Dr. D N Sharma told that last year the figures of the land records of the commissioner were saying that there will be 127 million tonne production.
The production will reach 145 million tonne if crops come.
This time the agricultural department is estimating to produce 162 million tonne.
Sharma says that there isn't going to be much changes in the production because of winters and rains.
The agricultural development rate of MP receiving Krishi Karman award might be touching 19 % but the fresh report of the agricultural survey 2011-12 presented for the second time have raised questions on its speed.
The contribution of the farmers in the gross domestic product of the state has reduced as compared to the last seven years.
The production of important crops has also been recorded to be less than the national average.
The government claims that there has been phenomenal growth in the agricultural sector for the last few years.
The irrigation acreage has increased but the reduction in agricultural sector in GDP can become a matter of concern for the policy makers.
According to the report , the contribution of primary area -LRB- agricultural sector -RRB- in GDP in the year 2004-05 was 24.6 % which reduced to 21.5 % in the year 2011-12.
While more than 70 % of the state's population is dependent on agriculture for its livelihood.
Despite this , no increase in its contribution in GDP is a thinkable issue.
For the government it is also a matter of concern that despite all efforts around 64 % of the land is still un-irrigated.
Although the irrigation resources have increased in the last years.
The top officers of the agriculture department also admit that small farms , dependence on rains , lack of irrigation facilities , less production , unavailability of cold chains , lack of good seeds and less and irregular electricity have become a hindrance in the progress of this sector.
Reduction in the size of farms : The size of farms in the sate has reduced in an alarming way.
The agricultural experts do not consider it to be a good sign for the state.
While the size of the average holding in the state in the year 2001-01 was 2.22 hectare , it reduced to 1.78 hectare in the year 2010-11.
According to the survey there are only one % farmers in the state who have more than 10 hectare holding.
While around 72 % farmers have less than 2 hectare farms.
Farmers away from electricity : District level information has been made available in the agricultural survey.
If we look at the figures of the electricity department then there has been decrease in the use of electricity by the farmers in comparison to the last year.
In the year 200-6-07 there was 32.10 % electricity consumption in agricultural sector which reduced to just 31.445 in the year 10-11.
There will be more reduction in the total sugar production of the country next sugarcane session beginning from October , 2013.
The agriculture minister , sharad Pawar fears that in the next financial year the sugar production might remain 240 million tonne.
It can also affect the sugar prices.
In the current sugarcane session , the production is estimated to be 245-150 million tonnes.
In the last session 2011-12 -LRB- October-September -RRB- the sugar production remained 260 million tonnes.
Because of the less sugarcane production in Maharashtra the agriculture minister has feared this.
Pawar said that this time Maharashtra , the largest sugarcane producing state in the country has not yet started sowing sugarcane.
Perpetually for the second year there has been delay in sowing due to low rainfall.
The situation has worsened due to the state's decision to save water for drinking because it can create water crisis for crops.
In the current session , the situation of sugar production is good in other areas of the country except Maharashtra and Karnataka.
Because of the conversion of large amount of sugarcane into fodder in Maharashtra , sugar production has suffered a setback , while the situation in UP is better.
Recently , the food minister K. V. Thomas had estimated that the sugar production will increase up to 250 million tonne this year because of the better production in UP.
Initially the estimate was 245 million tonne.
In the first five months of the current session there has been 188 million tonne sugar production while there is no production in around 50 % sugar mills.
The wheat for Byawara district will be exported to Iran.
Like the previous year , this time also a cargo of 26 hundred quintal wheat will be sent to Iran.
It will first go through cargo train to Andhra Pradesh and from there it will reach Iran through ship.
Next cargo will go from Sarangpur.
In this cargo , the storage wheat from Sarangpur , Kurawar and Nrsinhgargh will be sent.
R.S. Solanki , the district manager of the MP state civil supply corporation has said that Iran has shown interest in buying it because the quality of wheat has come up to the international standards.
so far , nine thousand metric tonne wheat has been supplied to Iran from here.
The agricultural policies of the government are making the agriculture dependent on machines and genes.
While today there is much need for traditional farming in the country.
The government is neither learning lessons from the farmer suicides nor including the effects of climatic changes in agricultural policies.
These things were discussed in the national conference on ' national mission for perpetual agriculture ' subject organised in the constitutional club.
It was organised by the non-governmental organization Pairwi and Oxfam India.
Farmers , experts and policy makers from all across the country participated in this.
Dr. Ajay Kumar , the parliamentarian from JDF said that in order to develop agriculture there is need to revive the conventional water sources other than building small irrigation projects.
Rajeshwari Raina -LRB- NISTEDS -RRB- said that rather than paying attention to the agricultural situation , maximum production is being encouraged in NMSA.
The farmers can very soon get relief from the high prices of urea.
In order to keep a hook on the prices the central government is considering to fix the maximum retail price of urea fertilizers.
These prices will be separately determined on the basis of cost incurred on transportation in every state.
The fertilizer department irritated from the large scale growth in non urea fertilizer and subsidy bills is analyzing the current dink toll policy for non urea fertilizers.
According to the sources the fertilizer department had proposed a subsidy up to 25 % given on di ammonium phosphate , murite of potash -LRB- MOP -RRB- and single superphosphate -LRB- SSP -RRB-.
But this proposal was not accepted at the ministerial level.
The central chemical and fertilizer ministry wants to have a long time solution for the increasing subsidy bills and urea prices.
According to the sources , in this situation the current dink toll policy is being prepared afresh for the non urea fertilizers.
Under this the department will decide the maximum prices for fertilizers.
The fertilizer companies will not be able to sell fertilizers on the higher prices than this.
Further , there is a substantial difference in the prices of non urea fertilizers in the state.
On the basis of transportation cost , a little difference in the prices is correct to a certain extent but many a times it is more than this.
Some fertilizers have freight subsidy and others don ' t.
In such situations different prices of fertilizers are determined for different states.
Under the new policy the fertilizer producing companies can get up to 30 % on account subsidy.
Currently the drug companies get up to 85 % on account subsidy.
The fertilizer companies were provided the right to determine the retail prices of non urea fertilizers in April , 2010.
Currently , a subsidy of 14,340 Rupees on DAP and 14,440 rupees on MOP respectively is being provided.
The department has made an arrangement for providing 5,000 billion rupees for the the payment of delayed subsidy on non urea fertilizers.
The central government is now going to get the patent of kharchia variety of wheat grown in the Kharchi region of Pali district.
This variety with qualities of irrigation with saline water and giving good yield in the country & abroad is being experimented in Australia for its gene reform.
Further , after the perpetual increasing demand for wheat , Kharchia variety of wheat is grown.
The wheat research directorate situated in Haryana has also developed several elevated varieties.
According to the scientists , Kharchia crop is grown in around half the agricultural land of Pali village.
Its irrigation is also carried with 60-70 % saline water.
On an average 2-2.5 tonne Kharchia wheat is being obtained from the district.
Because of its unique color and taste , from Pali this wheat is reaching the local migrants living in foreign lands.
Subsidized manure and availability of electricity at cheap rates to increase the agricultural production at low cost has become the enemy of soil.
Because of the indiscriminate use of chemical fertilizers and excessive exploitation of underground water , not only the soil and become ill but it has also affected the level and quality of underground water.
The planning commission has objected this by pressurizing the agriculture ministry for making new policies for the lack of use of subsidized chemical fertilizers and cheap electricity.
According to a senior officer of the agriculture ministry , they are excessively used because of the subsidies obtained in manure and electricity in northern , southern and western states.
Punjab , Haryana , Uttar Pradesh , Maharashtra , Karnataka , Andhra Pradesh and TamilNadu are such states where the situation has reached a dangerous level due to its more use than what is actually required.
There is severe deficiency of nutritive elements in the soil and the quality has reduced to to the lowering of underground water level.
The officers say that in order to make agriculture cheaper the government has not only provided the farmers with subsidized manure and electricity but because of its cheap unavailability the farmers are using it more than their requirement.
But other are also exploiting it in the name of farmers.
Recently the union agriculture minister Sharad Pawar in one of his speeches said " we ashould think about the mediums and methods of transformation which we are rapidly adopting ".
The long term stability of agriculture is as important as reducing its cost.
Further , providing secure food to the population should also be our goal.
Pawar has certainly said a correct thing but with this he then kept backing the genetically amended food substances for growth and food security in production which not only seems to be opposing but to a certain extent irrelevant also.
This drama to encourage genetically modified crops for doubling food production has reached a comic level by holding conferences with biotech seed lobby.
All this is being done when in a interim report made by the technical expert committee made by the Supreme court and recommendations of Parliamentary standing committee on agriculture it is said that the government should keep ultra precautions for adopting such technologies.
In the report questions were also raised on its usefulness.
India has the biggest food grain granary of the world , worth around 667 million tonnes.
It is 2.5 times more than the decided government limit for buffer stock.
Despite this , food grains are not reaching the hungry.
Isn't this wrong.
Then on what basis the agriculture minister is speaking about the usefulness of those GM crops that are trapped in controversies all across the world.
Before this , the scientists have discarded that the food security and production level can eb increased through GM crops.
It brings two important issues before us - Production and development.
If we talk about production , then we have experience of Green Revolution and it has been a decade for the first GM crop , BT cotton in the country.
Today GM crops are being backed in a similar way as green revolution was presented as a panacea for food security.
But its consequences were never analyzed.
The indiscriminate use of agricultural chemicals i. e. fertilizers and insecticides have destroyed the natural asset i.e the fertility of soil.
It does not become a news that the agriculture production in the most fertile areas of the country is decreasing very fast.
The news does not also talk about those thousands of farmers and agricultural laborers who are suffering an epidemic like cancer behind the so called beautiful claims of revolution.
Similarly , when BT cotton was presented in the year 2002 , then the biotech seed industry who had developed this seed and the government encouraging it had made huge claims.
After a decade , ground reality speaks an altogether different story of these seeds.
There has been no significant growth in the cotton production in our country after the introduction of BT cotton.
The area under non BT cotton in the year 2004-05 was 94.6 % , then the average national production of cotton was 470kg and in 2011-12 when the area under total cotton cultivation reached 93 % of BT cotton area , then the average national production of cotton became 481 kg.
The effect on availability and diversity of seed is a different thing.
It is also a fact to be noted that today American seed producing company Monsanto controls the total cotton seed market.
The talks with the farmers across the country has made it clear that the farmers have been trapped in illusory advertisements.
Even if they want they can not leave BT cotton because now the non BT hybrid seed is not available.
The non BT cotton seeds have been moved out of the market in a conspired manner and what has remained has been polluted by BT gene.
It has also been mentioned in the layout of the 12th fifth year plan.
Rather than accepting its reality , our agriculture ministry seems to be encouraging the companies like ABLE and Monsanto who are looking for their benefits.
And finally there is no decrease in farmer suicides , which is a actual mirror of our agricultural policies.
Rather there has been an increase in the farmer suicides under BT cotton area.
All of these brings me near its science.
In a way we should consider farmers as the first scientists of agriculture.
Not like those who get certificates and degrees from the schools who remain away from the ground realities.
They are those scientists , who are testing and experimenting the indigenous wild species and have been distributing seeds and knowledge for years.
Today , the agriculture science being encouraged by the industries and speedily adopted by the governments seems totally opposite in its comparison.
Unfortunately it is inspired from an agenda of corporate profit.
The agriculture ministry and Indian agricultural research council should work for the benefit of farmers not against them.
And finally , most importantly our policies should save the livelihood of the farmers providing food to our country.
There has been increase in the availability of food grain in the country.
According to the central agriculture ministry there has been 6 % increase in it.
According to the current figures , now the per person everyday food grain availability in the country was 462.9gm.
Initially this amount was 437.1 gram per person per day.
Here the special thing is that for the last few years there has been steep decrease in the availability of food grains.
The government claims that this decrease has stopped now.
A major reason behind this growth is the fabulous production in states like Haryana , Punjab and Madhya Pradesh.
Rice , wheat , coarse grains and pulses come under the category of food grains.
According to the central agricultural minister Sharad Pawar , in the year 2011-12 , the per person food grain availability has been 462.9 grams while in the former year it was 437.1 grams.
In 2009 the per person availability of food grain was 444 gram , more than this but in 2010 there was a fall in it and it remained 437.1 gram per day.
In the year 2011-12 it set a record and increased to 25 billion , 93.2 million tonne.
In the former year the food grain production was 24 billion 44.9 million tonne.
Despite the increase in food grain availability the farmers of the country are facing problems like bad soil fertility , bad seed quality , lack of profit , lack of interest of youngsters in farming and reducing water productivity.
The situation of farmers was described by the director of Indian agricultural research institute -LRB- IARI -RRB- , Mr. H. S. Gupta himself during a program organised in Delhi.
Gupta asked the farmers that they should use modern agriculture technology for solving these problems.
He said that working in the same direction a new equipment has been developed to test the quality of soil.
This digital equipment apart from testing the quality of soil also gives information regarding right use of fertilizers.
The price of this digital equipment has been fixed keeping the condition of farmers in mind.
Among the gardening produces , there is no storage facility except potatoes.
Despite the government's announcement , the plan to open cold storage through private investment has failed.
The investors are not excited to build it since it is a non profitable work.
While there is huge difference in the demand and supply in this sector.
The country has cold storage worth only 3 billion tonne capacity while it requires storage worth 23 billion tonnes.
Because of expensive land prices and administrative carelessness , no private investment has come to cold storage.
While the government has made several attractive announcements to increase investment in this sector in the current plan.
The 25 % subsidy in cold chains has been increased to 40 %.
Yet there is doubt on the success of the plan.
Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal have maximum number of cold stores.
But the cost of storage is quite high since they are based on former technique.
In comparison to this the state governments have done no modification in the rent of these cold stores for the past three years.
Because of the expensive electricity and labor , around 100 cold stores have been shut in Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal.
Although the government has provisions for help to make the conventional cold stores modern.
Both these states have facilities for storing only potatoes.
Due to the perpetual downfall in the income from cold stores the investors are saving themselves from investing despite attractive encouragement.
The central government has formed a high level committee to establish cold stores.
The committee had recommended for building new cold stores with 12 million tonne capacity and modernizing conventional cold stores with 8 million tonne capacity.
In order to maintain the supply for onion round the year , there was a suggestion for building cold stores worth 1.5 million tonne capacity.
But these recommendations kept lying on shelves.
According to a fresh study report on cold store series by a major bank , this sector has immense scope and it is estimated that by 2015 this sector will have investment up to more than 40 thousand billion rupees.
According to the report despite several plans there are very weak conditions for investment in this sector.
The compensation for the burden on government treasure due to the freeing of sugar industry from control will be made by increasing the central excise duty.
The agriculture ministry has also supported this proposal by the food ministry.
There is a proposal to double the excise duty on sugar industry.
Sharad Pawar has agreed to the provisions on removing ban from this industry and increasing excise duty.
It will certainly lead to high sugar prices in domestic market.
In the annual meeting held by the Indian agricultural research council -LRB- ICAR -RRB- , agriculture minister Sharad Pawar said that the subsidized sugar provided to consumers under the ration system will not be expensive.
The government will buy sugar from open market for this.
There will be a economic burden of 3000 billion rupees on the government for this.
The central government will compensate this economic burden by increasing excise duty.
It has been mentioned in the cabinet note of food ministry.
In October , 2012 the chairman of Prime minister's economic advisory , C. Rangarajan has recommended to immediately remove the government control on sugar industry.
Sugar mill owners were angry for a long time due to two major bans.
They were demanding to remove the provision of 10 % levy tax on sugar and selling sugar in open market.
The sugar sold in ration stores is bought at 17 rupees and distributed at the rate of 13.50 rupees.
The third final estimation regarding the production of major crops grown in the country will be issued on 3rd April , 2013.
It is estimated that in the third final estimation for the crop year 2012-13 -LRB- July-June -RRB- the total food production of the country will be 25.53 billion tonnes.
As per the figures issued by the central agriculture ministry , it is is estimated that in the third final estimation in the crop year 2012-13 the food production will increase from 50 million tonne to 25.53 billion tonne.
The increase in production of rice , wheat and coarse grains are responsible for this.
It is estimated that the wheat production of the country in the year 2012-13 will be 9.36 billion tonne while the wheat production in the year 2011-12 was 9.48 billion tonnes.
Among other rabi crops , mustard production would be 74 million tonne which is 73.6 million tonnes more the the crop year 2011-12.
It is estimated that among other crops the production of coarse grains would be 3.95 billion tonne which is 4.20 billion tonnes more than the crop year 2011-12.
It is estimated that the total production of oil seeds would be 3.07 billion tonnes which is 90 million tonnes more than 2011-12.
It is estimated that soybean production would be 1.41 billion tonne.
Similarly it is expected that groundnut production would be 54 million tonne.
In a recently organized seminar , central agriculture and food processing minister , Sharad Pawar had said that it is essential to adopt scientific methods in order to bring increase in agricultural production.
He said that agricultural production can be increased by increasing the production of current sowing sector.
India needs to ascertain constant agricultural development seeing the availability of natural resources especially irrigated land.
Due to the farsighted vision of the government , hard work of farmers and the skilled direction obtained from the scientists , there is a perpetual increase in Indian agricultural production.
The farmers are made attracted towards conventional farming and gardening through national gardening mission.
It is not only increasing their lifestyle but also increasing food grain production.
For the past several years agriculture has evolved as a priority among the top priorities of the central and state government.
The governments confessed that we can not concertize the dream of green revolution unless we change the structure of agriculture.
That is why agriculture schemes are being implemented as per the changing structures of agriculture.
In fact during 1960s and 70s green revolution came due to new seeds , fertilizers and improved methods of agriculture which increased the production and changed the structure of agriculture.
While answering a question in the house of commons recently the agriculture minister agreed that changes in the structure of agriculture has increased food grain production greatly.
For the last two years the wheat production in the world has reduced up to around 3 hundred million tonne , while in India it is constantly increasing.
It is estimated that in the coming years it will increase up to 1.
The government had announced a package worth 25 thousand billion rupees to achieve this target.
Farmers are made aware through this package.
Still India should remain alert by taking a lesson from China.
There is need to provide many more facilities to farmers than before.
Apart from making them aware they should be encouraged so that the dream of becoming number one in agriculture is achieved.
It will lead to many benefits because the population in India is also increasing with a fast speed.
Till today there are many countries in the world where food crisis has taken a horrible form.
Day after another there are violent incidents in these countries because of food crisis.
It is essential to maintain the interest in the production of these food grains so that we do not face such incidents.
Though nano technology and biotechnology have opened new doors of opportunities.
We can achieve the expected results in this decade by making biotechnology more mature.
By the year 2020 we shall be successful in achieving the size of fruits , color of flowers , amount of glucose in it , taste and fibrous crop as per our expectation.
The government also provided full support and efforts were made to provide cheap loans for all those facilities to farmers which were essential to promote agriculture.
The farmers were provided pump sets to tractors through loans.
Apart from providing agricultural equipment to the farmers they were also inspired to use improved seeds.
Campaigns such as " Agriculture department on the door steps of farmer " under the food security mission were run by various state governments.
Not only this , benefits are also being provided through manure and use of less water in barren lands.
Efforts are on in India to cultivate and grow more and more grains and save them as it is being carried in Israel and European countries using new techniques.
Investment in agriculture is encouraged through new systems like dry farming , more production with less water and drip irrigation.
It has particularly become more popular in deserted areas.
Marginal and small farmers have been benefited because of the minimum support price of the government.
Initially small and marginal farmers remained in huge dilemma regarding their produce.
Firstly they could not understand the correct prices of grains and secondly they were compelled to sell on whatever rate was told to them.
In this situation the government's announcement to minimum support price will now save the small and marginal farmers from selling it to the middle men.
Special emphasis is being laid on soil conservation to give new form to agricultural development in the country.
The ideological structure of soil conservation activities has changed.
Substantial reforms have been made in the concepts of these programs during every five year plans.
Once again the central government is undertaking a unique initiative in the direction of soil conservation.
Information are being gathered about the nutritive elements by testing the soil of every farm through agricultural department.
Further , farmers are being aware about soil conservation.
Things such as how we can use soil in a appropriate way and how soil can be conserved , how its strength can be conserved etc. are being explained to the farmers by the scientists.
Seed is the foundation and key mantra of cultivation.
High quality seed gives up to 20-25 % more produce than the ordinary seed.
Therefore pure and healthy seed is the foundation of good production.
That is why special care is being paid by the government on the quality of seeds.
On one hand sowing impure seeds leads to low production and on the other hand as a result of impure seed good seed is not obtained for future.
In this situation the farmers should use only certified seed at any cost.
Seed production should not be perceived from a farmer or scientist's view but with the eyes of a entrepreneur.
This is the reason on the initiative of the central government farmers are being provided breeding seeds , foundation seeds and certified seeds by various state governments.
Food grain production in the country is increasing rapidly.
Still the challenges have not ended.
In the direction of food grain production Green Revolution began under the leadership of the then Prime minister Indira Gandhi in 1960 in India.
Nobel Prize laureate Professor Norman Borlaug takes the credit of initiating Green Revolution.
With this it is intended to increase crop production by using hybrid and dwarf seeds giving more production in irrigated and un - irrigated agricultural areas of the country.
When there was news of wheat being kept for more than two years and consequently being rotten in the granaries of Punjab and Haryana was exposed then at the same time there were news of thousands of quintals food grain getting spoiled on Kolkata airport.
In this situation the most essential thing is to have adequate storage so that food grains are kept properly.
The rate of soil erosion in India is around 2600 million tonne every year.
This means it is very essential to save this soil.
Because despite all efforts so far India has only 40 % irrigated land.
The figures also say that around 71 million hectare land in the country is affected due to barren soil while in the entire world this figure is said to be around 9520 hectare.
The infertile soil is also required to be made cultivable.
Similarly in order to perpetually increase the food grain production in India , the government should make the land reform program active.
We can also give momentum to the food security through gardening.
Similarly by putting up projects such as grassland , fish rearing etc. work can be done in the direction of eliminating poverty by creating jobs.
Further , around 25.9 million hectare region in the country is affected from alkalinity.
This crisis is not there in a single state but in little parts of every state.
Reform programs should be carried in this direction also.
The situation of such soil can be reformed by cultivating potatoes , tobacco etc.
Through soil conservation we can not only increase the acreage under cultivation but can also be successful in increasing the grain of food grain production.
The contribution of agriculture and concerned sectors in the gross domestic product of the country is around 13-14 %.
Seeing the plight of food grain production , agricultural development has been prioritized in the first five year plan.
The first prime minister of the country Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru asked to put special emphasis on agricultural sector which can establish high level structure of agricultural research , agricultural expansion and agricultural education.
Without any delay schemes were made for the all round development of agricultural sector.
In 1958 , Indian agricultural research institute , Pusa , New Delhi was given the status of ' an honorary university '.
Where provisions for agricultural education were made under the land grant system of America.
Further , new directions were given to agricultural research and its expansion.
The period between 1960-70 came up as a miraculous decade.
The first high level agricultural university was set up during 1960-70 in Pantnagar's Nainital district in Uttarakhand whose campus is expanded in around 16 thousand acre land.
Programs primarily concerning agricultural education , agricultural research and agricultural expansion were made in this university.
Further , path was set to open at least one agricultural university in every state of the country.
For this the entire credit goes to the first prime minister of the country Jawaharlal Nehru who laid the foundation of development and progress of agriculture and rural India.
The foreign wheat which was brought in India now was of extremely inferior quality.
During the same time the then prime minister of the country , Lal Bahadur Shastri gave the slogan " Jai Jawan Jai Kisan ".
During the same time the high yielding dwarf species of wheat had been brought to the country from Mexico for research.
These dwarf varieties of wheat were tested and also evaluated on the research farm of the Indian agricultural research institute , New Del.
Further , the possibilities of food security and food grain independence could be seen in India.
During 1962-63 the agricultural scientist and Nobel prize laureate Norman E. Borlaug carried tests on dwarf varieties of Mexican wheat along with Indian scientists on various research centers.
Due to the untiring efforts of Indian scientists , the high yielding varieties of wheat , Kalyan sona and sonalika were developed which remained popular in various states of the country.
Hence it was decided that the farmers will be provided these dwarf varieties very soon.
Further , agricultural technology should also be developed for these farmers.
The farmers of the country adopted this with a great fervor.
Pusa institute had a significant contribution in this great shift.
During this time the world popular agriculture scientist and former chairman of the national farmer's commission , Dr. M.S. Swaminathan became the guide of green revolution.
Pantnagar agricultural university and Punjab agricultural university also carried research work on dwarf wheat and developed several varieties.
The then prime minister of the country Mrs. Indira Gandhi initiated green revolution postal ticket in Pusa institute.
Dr. M. S. Swaminathan became the father of green revolution in India.
Recently , the great leader of green revolution Norman E. Barlog died at an age of 95 years on 11th September , 2009.
He was awarded with Nobel prize for world peace in 1970.
Along with the achievement of green revolution , research on other major crops also increased.
All India consolidated research projects were initiated in this regard.
The first project of this kind was initiated on maize crop.
In the middle of this decade special emphasis was laid on the development of non irrigated and dry areas.
During the last phase of this decade paddy-wheat crop system began.
Recommendations were made to adopt it in the irrigated areas of north India.
The biggest share of the total food grain production of our country comes from this crop system.
Further , the satisfying increase in agricultural production has improved the economic condition of the country.
Along with agriculture other occupations have also become active.
During the same time graduate and post graduate education in major subjects of agricultural science , encouraging agricultural expansion and agricultural research council were reorganized in entire India.
Dr. B.P Pal was elected the first director general of the newly formed council.
Recommendations were made to open new agricultural universities.
The outline of making agricultural expansion all the more effective was also laid at the end of this decade.
As a result it has been conceptualized to open an agricultural science center in every district.
Thus 1960 decade can be said to be ' a golden era of agricultural development '.
Gradual growth was seen in food grain production till 1980 decade.
The main reasons behind this were dwarf varieties giving more production , balanced availability of fertilizers , irrigation management , proper use of chemical drugs for proper management of insects and diseases.
By the end of 1985 we were getting 86 million tonne paddy and 75 million tonne wheat production respectively.
During this time the total food grain production was 200 million tonne.
Adequate food grain was available in the granaries of Indian food council which was sufficient for facing natural calamities such as famine , flood , cyclone etc.
Further , the country got unprecedented success in the production of milk and milk products , fish rearing , flesh , fruits and vegetables production.
Natural resources such as air , water , soil , underground water also significantly contributed for all this.
During the same time production gradually decreased.
Under the paddy-wheat crop system the soil started showing loss of carbonic carbon and productivity.
Due to the inappropriate , unbalanced and indiscriminate use of chemical fertilizers signs of deficiency of some secondary and micro nutritive elements were being seen.
The farmers had started using more chemical fertilizers particularly nitrogen fertilizers to increase the productivity of crops.
Consequently the fury of diseases , insects and weeds increased in the farms.
Insects and weeds became chemical drug resistant.
Thus the problem of environment pollution occurred.
This problem automatically gave rise to various problems.
The agricultural scientists , subject experts and farmers became anxious with this.
Thus sustainable agriculture was emphasized to reduce environmental pollution.
Very soon research on sustainable agriculture began in various research centers of the country.
At the end of 1990s decade the former prime minister of the country strengthened the resolution ' jai jawan jai kisan ' by adding ' jai vigyan ' to it.
Thus research on sustainable agriculture had begun in the 1990s decade.
Crop diversification - Continuously growing a single kind of crop in agriculture and using a single kind of chemicals not only reduced the production of crops but downfall in their quality was also reported.
Single crop system is neither beneficial from economic point of view nor is it more beneficial from the perspective of circumstances.
Hence , along with paddy crops , pulse crops , gardening crops , fish rearing , cattle rearing and bee rearing was also adopted on the farm.
With this if the main crop got destroyed in any year then other agricultural occupation could be the source of income of the farmers.
Further , there is proper use of natural resources in crop diversification.
Crop diversification can also bring organic prosperity in the farm.
Conservation agriculture is a method of sustainable cultivation where without ploughing the farms or with less ploughing the crops are sown with the remains of the former crop through a special machine called zero till which maintains the moisture , soil conservation and environment.
Researches have proved that multiple ploughing neither provides any significant benefit to the farm nor there is any added growth in the crop production.
Rather despite high cost incurred the farmer gets low economic profit.
Fertigation - This word is a blend of fertilizer and irrigation.
Providing water along with fertilizers to the plants through drip irrigation system is called ' fertigation '.
Through this method the water directly reaches the roots of plants rather than reaching the middle of plants.
Therefore less number of weeds grow in the crop.
Integrated water management - Because of the indiscriminate exploitation of underground water the water level is decreasing with a fast speed which is leading to problems like drying of wells , water supply , poisoning of water , salinity and increasing in cost of installing pumping sets.
Hence there should be maximum conservation of rainwater and reuse of running water by collecting them in reservoirs.
Research work is being carried on paddy thickness system for paddy crops where only 10-12 days old plants are planted and there is maximum saving of irrigation water.
The concept of integrated insect and disease management is an integral part of sustainable cultivation.
Under this along with chemical and organic drugs crop and systematic methods are also used to control insects which keeps the environment clean and increases production.
Huge success has been achieved in this direction by developing B. T. cotton providing its seed to the farmers.
Seeing the current scenario it is utmost essential to save the food grain and food items from the harmful effects of poisonous agricultural chemicals.
There is significant contribution of organic cultivation for taking good production of high quality crops and up-keeping the fertility of soil.
The prevalence of organic food is increasing day by day.
Today the future of organic cultivation of fruits and vegetables in many states of the country seems to be bright.
Ethanol has emerged as the most significant alternative organic fuel in the recent past years for reducing the high prices of mineral oils , their low availability and the pollution arising out of this.
It is mixed with petrol to make gasohol which completely leads to the combustion of fuel due to the presence of oxygen in it.
Consequently the emission of harmful elements gets reduced.
In India the organic fuel mission was started in the year 2003.
The Indian government declared the organic fuel policy in September , 2008 in this regard which says that up to 20 % organic fuel will be added to mineral oils by 2017.
The production of organic fuel is done through non edible oils like karanj , jatrofa , neem karadi and mahua.
Multipurpose trees such as jatrofa and karanj are being used as a source of non edible oils in our country to produce organic fuel.
These trees are being planted in less fertile , fallow and barren land.
Karanj has substantial capacity of conserving carbon.
Hence this tree is helpful in reducing environmental pollution.
There has been manifold increase in food grain production with the help of modern agricultural technology such as hybrid seeds , chemical fertilizers , insecticide and modern agricultural equipment in the past 65 years.
If we talk about potatoes then India is going to be the biggest potato exporting country.
On one hand the central government is providing protection to the farmers through various welfare schemes.
While their various problems are also being taken care of.
The effect of farmer credit card scheme which was run to save the farmers from the traps of moneylenders was visible at a larger level.
They were playing their significant roles in food grain production by getting manure and seeds on time.
On the other hand the government is also helping the people suffering loss in agriculture due to various reasons.
The farmers get more profit with less cost incurred through vegetable production.
On the other hand the people of the country are getting adequate nutritive vegetables to eat.
Amongst vegetables India has set a new record in potato production.
While the Bihar farmers have set a world record in potato production , the UP has been contituously increasing the acreage of potato sowing.
The annual potato production in the entire world in more than 30 billion tonne.
Most of the potatoes are grown in China.
Then comes Russia and India occupies the third number.
Currently half of the potatoes of the world are grown in less developed countries.
Most of the potatoes are eaten in Belarus.
The annual per person consumption of potatoes in the country is around 1712 kilograms.
The debt limit is determined without taking care of the debt repaying capacity.
In 1974 , Erikjekins had made the record by cultivating 168 kilograms potato by a plant which still subsists.
Very tempting smell comes from some of the varieties of the potatoes.
Potato is the main food in the whole Europe.
In India at Shimla , the Central potato foundation has played its role in the potato revolution by developing almost 45 varieties of the Khuphari quality.
Looking at the importance of the potato , United Nation had declared the year 2008 as' Potato year '.
In the World Potato is cultivated in the 125 countries.
Today worldwide there is almost 5000 varieties of the potatoes which grow mostly in the Andes mountains.
A good thing is this that all these varieties are preserved in the genetic bank of the central potato foundation.
Outlay to run all the welfare schemes for farmers has been prepared to cultivate potatoes by the agriculture and horticulture department of the related states.
States like Rajastan have even applied it.
97 percent potatoes are cultivated in India in just 10 states.
In this almost 33.12 percent potato is cultivated in UP.
Potatoes are cultivated in all the districts of the Uttar Pradesh but most of the potatoes are cultivated in the Pharukhabad , Agra , Eta , Mainpuri , Phirojabad and neighborhoods.
This whole area is famous as the name of the potato belt.
Farmers of this place have got the all prizes of the national level in the production of the potatoes.
After this West Bengal comes at the second position.
According to government data in the year 2012-13 there is estimation of the almost 10 percent rise in the productivity of the whole India.
Indian potatoes are being exported in Shrilanka , Barma , Bhutan and Nepal.
Among these countries almost 15 percent potatoes cultivated in India are exported.
This year preparation of the potato exportation has been done in the new way.
Except Uttar Pradesh traders of the Punjab , Gujarat , Bihar , Andhra Pradesh and Rajasthan have been also contacted by the society.
According to Sudhir Kumar national president of the Potato Grower and Export Society , varieties of the 3797 , Kuphari Bahara , Chipsona Kuphari and Pukharaja will be included in the potatoes which are exported.
These varieties are the main varieties of the Uttar Pradesh.
Due to cultivation of potatoes at the broad level and due to the way open for the potatoes exportation , from the farmers' side it is being tried to open the Potato Cenetary Lab at the district level.
Actually in the potato exportation disease free certificate becomes the hurdle.
Potato cenetary lab established in capitals of different states propagates it.
For every farmer it is problematic to reach there.
In this condition it will be convenient for farmers if the lab will be open at the district level.
To attract farmers toward the potato cultivation Micro-irrigation Scheme is being run in different states by the central government.
Farmers are being motivated to cultivate more than before by giving some extra rebates by state governments.
The Uttar Pradesh government has cut down involvement of the farmers by 30 percent in the National Mission on the Micro-Irrigation scheme -LRB- NMMI -RRB-.
From this , farmers will be much relieved.
A paper related to the rise in the share of the states in the project has been propagated by the Uttar Pradesh government Secretary Dr. Rajanish Dube on the behalf of state governments.
A farmer of the Bihar from the Nalanda district who does farming organically made the world record by producing 108.8 ton potatoes in a hectare.
Last year in the Nalanda itself at the Darveshpura a farmer Nitish Kumar had made the record of the 729 quintal production of the potatoes in a hectare.
Farmers of the West Bengal have contracted with a company which makes cold drinks to cultivate the Atlanta variety of the potato.
This variety of the potatoes are used to make the chips.
In the Brahmaputra , mainly attention is given to the cultivation of potatoes.
Due to the good price of the potato farmers have got good benefits.
After cultivation of the potatoes they cultivate wheat , onion and others.
In such conditions small farmers take double benefit cultivating two crops in a season.
On the national level paddy is cultivated in almost 4.5 crore hectare.
Due to rise in the sowing area the production of rice -LRB- Including the production of rabi and kharif both -RRB- in the year 2011-12 -LRB- July-June -RRB- according to agricultural ministry there is anticipation to reach 102 million ton record level.
In the expectation of the record production of the rice , agriculture ministry had estimated the goal of the government purchasing of the rice in 2011-12 -LRB- October-September -RRB- 35.3 million tons.
Before that during September 2011 government agency -LRB- FCI -RRB- had purchased 33 million tons rice.
Before that in the year 2007-08 maximum production of the rice was 9.5 crore tons and productivity of the rice was 21 quintal per hectare.
Hence this was the reason that agriculture scientist to increase the production of the rice adopted the system of rice intensification -LRB- SIR -RRB- technology which role was pivotal.
Every person assumes that rice is an aquatic crop and grows better in stable water.
Whereas the fact is this that paddy certainly retains alive in water but this is not an aquatic crop and does not grow in the lack of the oxygen.
Paddy plant invests much of its energy to develop the air repertory in its roots that's why SRS technology is being successful.
From the different experiment it has been proved that under the SRI cultivation paddy does not submerge but during the vegetative period it keeps the soil moist , later water density of the one inch is enough whereas in SRI technology there is need of half water in comparison to general condition.
In SRI there is the need of very less water and less expenses and even production is good.
If we pay attention to the history of the SRI technology -LRB- SRI -RRB- then in the year 1983 in Madagascar this technology has been developed for the first time.
Testing of its potentiality was done in China , Indonesia , Cambodia , Thailend , Bangladesh , Shrilanka and India.
In Andhra Pradesh in the year 2003 during the Kharif crop SRI was tested in 22 districts of the state.
The formal use of paddy cultivation from this technology was started from 2002-2003.
The specialty of this technique is that in this only two kilograms paddy seeds are enough for an Acre farm.
In this , less quantity of seeds is used whereas on the other side time to prepare nursery saves.
With the adoption of System of Intensification -LRB- SRI -RRB- technique more skillful use of the soil , labor , timing and other resources have been found for more production from the per unit area.
In this technique soil is kept just moist after transplantation of plants.
In the farm water clog is not kept.
Drainage is arranged properly due to that moisture will retain during the growth and development of plants.
Thus soil remains in pneumatic conditions in the paddy farms and there is less loss of the nitrogen fertilizer which is given in the soil through the denitrification process.
Simultaneously , excretion of nitrogen oxide is negligible from the paddy farms.
There is also saving of almost 30-50 percent irrigation water when the paddy is cultivated by SRI techniques.
The main aspect of this technique is environment reformation.
Due to the better use of natural resources and less use of other products like fertilizer and insecticide this technique is ecofriendly because in this technique water does not stand in the farm , because of that formation of the gases like methane and nitrous oxide do not occur and biodiversity of the land also increases.
From the SRI techniques in the paddy cultivation there is need of seeds from the rate of 2 kilograms per acre and some plants by the rate of 25-25 centimeter area per unit.
In the SRI technique paddy plant grows properly in the natural condition and the root of that also grows widely.
This gets the nutrients for itself from the deep layers of the soil.
This technique retains immunity against agricultural pests because this helps paddy crops to absorb nutrients from the soil naturally.
In general technique more than 30 buds per plant are got , whereas more than 100 buds could be emerged from the transplantation of the paddy through SRI techniques.
Varieties of the hybrid paddy or normal paddy could be also cultivated through the SRI techniques.
According to the region specific climate , it is mandatory to select the varieties of the hybrid paddy.
For sowing every year the new seeds of the hybrid paddy should be got from the reliable and authorized seed distributor.
For the Jharkhand state pro agro6444 variety of the hybrid paddy has been sanctioned by the Birsa Agriculture University.
In May-June after the first rain , make the farm which has been selected for nursery by using leveler.
The nursery is prepared in the dry or moist farm.
Growth in the moist farm is good.
Wet seed in water for 12 hours and before sowing in nursery medicate seed by putting quantity of 2 gram carbondaizim fungicide in per kilogram of the seed then sow it.
If the nursery has to be prepared in the moist farm then spread medicated seeds on the plain tough ground in the shadow and cover it by the wet jute bags.
Sprinkle water over jute bags 2-3 times in a day.
Seed will be sprouted after 24 hours.
Then spread sprouted seeds in the moist farm.
After 2-3 days of the sowing of the germinated seeds do the irrigation in the nursery.
After that as per need do little irrigation.
Keep nursery free from the weeds.
Cultivation of the hybrid paddy could be done in watered or unwatered land.
After first rain in May while plowing and before a month from the transplanting put rotten fertilizer of the dung or compost by the rate of 5 tons per hectare.
15 days before transplantation water the farm or till it so that weeds will decay and mix into the soil.
Before a day from plantation till it again and make the farm plain and do the plantation.
After using leveler do the transplantation in the shallow depth of 2-3 centimeter in the soil of the farm which has been leveled.
If there will be water clog then drain the water before plantation.
Before plantation use the chemical fertilizer.
Keep the rows in the north-south direction.
In the farm after draining the water put the one fourth quantity of the nitrogen and potash and all phosphorus.
Divide three fourth quantity of nitrogen into three parts.
Put first portion after 3 and 6 weeks of the plantation and rest at the time when the buds come out.
Remaining one fourth portion of the potash topdress into standing crop at the time of the budding.
Despite that use DAP 25 kilo per hectare salphor while preparing farm itself.
Due to the absence of the stable water more grass grows among the SRI plants.
Grass should be removed by moving weeder among plants.
Grasses near the plant should be removed from the hands.
Microbial activity increases by letting the farm dry gradually and watering it and plants get nutrients easily.
To prevent from the fungoid wind and brown spot diseases spry 0.5 percent of the cabredazim vevistin 50 or 0.06 percent of the trisayclazol.
For bacterial diseases drain water from the farm.
When 80 percent grains of the capitulum ripe then harvest the crop.
When two small leaves start to appear in the paddy plant after 8 to 12 days then transplantation should be down.
While transplantation , reduce the retrograde.
Carefully extract the small paddy plant with the seed of the nursery , soil and roots and plant it at shallow depth.
The paddy plant grows better alone rather than in the group.
That's why it should be planted in the square at the distance of 25 centimeters.
Due to this there is the possibility of more root growth.
Two weeding must be done till the eruption or inflorescence of the paddy , but 4 times weeding is assumed better.
More yielding is possible from better fertility and balanced nutrients.
Development of the country has gone on the path after independence , in fact those were the way of the indiscriminate exploitation of the natural resources.
How much we have tortured the nature that its sullenness came out the form of the all environmental problems.
We have increased the destruction of resources till the extent , which must have reached to extreme.
One side population is growing whereas on the other side acreage of agriculture land is decreasing.
The economy and population are growing explosively on the price of natural resources.
Our current systems remain sustainable not just today but in the future also , for this preservation of the natural resources is most important.
It seems today base of our agricultural system has started to slide - climate change , crumbling land-resources and ruined natural resources - our agriculture has been remaining based on these itself.
The risk hovering over the head of the bio-material resources of this earth , this is the doings of men itself , there is no doubt about this.
With the growth of the population the demand of the foodstuffs will be doubled.
According to the anticipation of the United Nation there is the fear of almost 35 percent less production of the foodstuffs by 2050 due to climate change , reduction of the agricultural land , water crises , etc.
Due to use of agricultural land for the industrial growth and residence scheme agricultural land has been reduced by almost two percent during last two decades.
Through the provisions the policy of the more production in less acreage should be adopted.
For the time being the one portion of our food production is the result of the non sustainable use of the land and water and if it will not be reformed then a time will come when food production rather than increasing will start to decrease.
Sustainable resource arrangement is not difficult , providing we give priority to the issues like to reduce soil and water wastage in the future research policies , to remove regional imbalances in productivity and environmental crisis.
In the year 2025 , our food needs have been estimated at 30 million tons.
Meaning of to complete this is that to maintain the 4 percent growth rate in the agriculture production every year , which is not that easy.
To maintain the current level of the food self-sufficiency also , we will have to ensure that 50 million tons foodstuffs should increase every year.
Since when the door of the more production was opened in the development of the dwarf varieties , from then to cross their genetic productivity limit scientists are engrossed to bring out new techniques to form the more useful plant from the scientific creative perspective and to use the possibilities of the hybrid energy.
Between these two options , the latter one has been proved more practical , especially when China has proven the techniques of hybrid paddy successful at the professional level.
Taking lessons from this experience of China India ran a huge program to develop the hybrid paddy in the year 1989 according to the nation's situations.
This is the matter of pleasure that international organization like ' Simit ' famous for the research in the wheat and maize is taking interest in the hybrid wheat and maize technology.
India had taken initiative in the world to develop hybrid varieties in the cotton , millet and castor and by taking motivation from that achievement Indian agriculture research institute wants to cultivate the new varieties of such hybrids which could face the new circumstances firmly.
For this except paddy attention is also being paid to the crops like mustard , rapeseed , yellow lentils and safflower.
If In the varieties and hybrids the necessary level of the resistivity would be given and techniques of the consolidated pest control would be adopted then loss of the production may be reduced till some extent.
Due to the imbalance and less use of the nutrients , selecting inappropriate varieties and cheap seeds yielding suffers loss.
To make the agricultural product sustainable we have taken several strong steps , but still there is a huge scope of the utilization of the nation's vast agricultural potential.
Every kind of the climate is here.
In the east the rainiest areas in the world and in the west the driest area.
Like this even soils are of the different varieties.
It seems like the weather has been made according to the need of crops.
Such a vast bio-diversity is here that India is included among the centers of the emergence of the flora.
The 12 percent of the world's flower-heritage has been treasured on our earth and tree-plants of the 45000 varieties are our green golden mine.
Among these 5000 varieties are used for food , fuel , medicine , fiber and spices etc.
Like flora India is full of the genetic diversity of the fauna also and there is a vast scope of its utility , this has been proved.
In future agriculture will have to bare the challenges on the world level like ecology , climate , economic , social , equality and law and energy and employment.
For this there will be need of the innovations , development of the first class technology and to convert them into quality products after publishing it , which could confront the world-competition and by getting maximum benefit could rise up the lifestyle level of the people engaged in the agriculture.
Globalization has open up the world market.
In the world-competition that product will be sold out , which will be better than others.
Thus now the quality of our product is also equally essential as productivity.
After the use of the corps and hybrids which give more grain , the competition of more productivity and benefits has increased as such that our attention did not go to this issue that how long this process will be able to run.
There is the result of this that these processes have already given away and new problems to reduce the productivity standard started to come out.
Few problems of such kinds are these - lack in efficiency of the nutrients , imbalance of the many nutrients in the soil , adverse changes in the physical and chemical nature of the soil , misuse of the water , soil and water pollution and collusion of the insect disease and weeds.
Our most popular and productive area of the wheat-paddy crop process is an example of this thing that when the danger of the sustainability occurs and rein of the production stops then how ridiculous problem emerges.
In the crop cycle of the high price crops sunflower , soya bean , peanuts , mustard and basamati rice etc. have been included.
Like this looking at the productivity and sustainability of the agriculture integrated nutrient management and integrated pest management technology is being used mostly.
If the maximum scope of the irrigation will be embodied then too , 50 percent of the agriculture land will be dry land.
That's why if we have to save the farmers from the insecure farming of the dry region then will have to give new direction to the research to develop the technology according to the changing tenor of the weather , then only stability could be brought in the food production.
For all these there is the need of the continuous practice.
Till fertilizers are concerned , techniques of its appropriate usage have been developed.
The importance of the contribution of the pulses in the Indian agriculture is popular.
This is the main and a cheap source of the protein in the veg food.
In these there is 2-3 times more protein than grains like wheat , maize , barley , rice and millet.
In our vegetarian food most of the quantity of the protein is fulfilled by the pulses itself.
These crops increase the fertility of the land by establishing the atmosphere's nitrogen in the land.
The deep roots of these crops reform the soil composition.
Pulse crops like cowpea , moth bean and kidney bean are used as a green fertilizer.
Capacity to bear the dryness these crops can be cultivated in the dry areas successfully.
Pulse crops have more risk than other cultivated crops.
Hence to increase the cultivation of these crops Pulse Insurance Policy should be launched and this scheme should be made popular.
Government should arrange the pulses' proper marketing services to make available to the farmers.
Despite that a proper arrangement should be done to make farmers give right price.
During passed ten year overview of the growth of the production and productivity of the oil seed crops mainly rain dependent , a proper reduction in the import and eight fold growth in the export is a perfect example of the yellow revolution in the nation.
New varieties of the different oil seed pulses will have to be developed for the salinity soils and according to dry cultivation.
Integrated plant protection and integrated plant nutrition policy will be mandatory to maintain the growth rate of the oil seeds.
Seeds of the improved quality will have to be made in the maximum quantity and it will have to make available to the farmers in the time.
The varieties in those hybrid qualities are available , the utmost attention will have to be given on their seed production.
In the barren land many plants like Mahua , Neem will have to be planted , so that maximum production could be done.
For this it will be necessary that coordination and uniformity could be established among different departments of the center and states.
In the integrated complete development system proper industry-business will have to be brought with the oilseed crops.
This is mandatory because the oil of the oil seed crops , bran with protein and fibers of many crops and there are many other such things without integrated and inclusive development of those things the complete growth of the oil seeds will not be possible.
To maintain the yellow revolution always and to make it reach to new heights , will have to run a time-bound research program.
Horticultural crops are crops which need more labor but simultaneously are the crops which give more benefits and are ecofriendly.
Horticultural import is growing gradually.
The storage capacity at the International Airports will have to increase.
The research efforts have given good results in the grapes , tomato , potato and sweet potatoes.
Generally different varieties are used for the fresh and preserved.
There is the need of the encouragement in the field like food preservation and greenhouse production.
From this with the growth in the employment opportunity the contribution in economy reliability and stability will also increase.
By producing dense yielding through ' green House ' , the other crops could be cultivated in the rest agriculture land.
For the maintenance of the balanced diet and health , vegetables are mandatory.
Looking at the deterrence against the diseases number of the vegetarian people are growing steadily and demand of the vegetables is increasing.
In India , 160 new varieties have been recommended for cultivation at the national level.
Despite that there is an important place of the hybrid varieties in the vegetables which have better yielding than other varieties.
Despite that , new techniques to cultivate the vegetables have been developed , by adopting those farmers could earn more increasing the vegetable productivity.
In fact , there is an importance of the perfect weather timing to sow the every crop.
The meaning of this timing is to make available proper temperature , oxygen , humidity etc. in right amount so that germination of the sowed seeds could be normal and desired because proper germination of the crop is assumed as the base of the production.
Completion of the crop's life cycle is possible by the timely sowing.
The crop which is sown timely gets the length of the sun-air velocity-day through proper temperature , humidity , rain or irrigation.
From this growing and developing process of the plant starts at the right time and run with right pace and condition of the plant remains good.
Although sowing time in every weather has its own importance but the time of the sowing has very deep impact over the productivity of the crops.
It has been seen even that difference comes between the crop sown before noon or afternoon.
It will be right to say this that the key of getting proper production of the crops is timely sowing.
Grains especially cluster bean , millet and Armillary are grown whole year in some of the parts of the country but their maximum sowing is done during rainy weather.
Hence timing of the sowing has a great impact over their production.
It is assumed useful in many perspectives to sow all the crops in the row.
But it is necessary to say in the context of the coarse grains that coarse grains remain untouched from the scientific techniques.
Sprinkling sowing : in this process seeds are sown by scattering.
Work of sowing is done either before the last tillage or after the tillage.
If seeds have been sown after the tillage the it is must to add a little borax so that the seed will be connected to the moisture of the soil and gemination would be good.
Sometime coarse grains are scattered in the moist soil and even tillage is not done but this process of the sprinkling sowing can not be said good.
The equal distribution of the seed is the must.
In this process it is not possible to have equality in the seed distribution.
Sowing in the row : in this process seed is sown in the row of the uniform and optimal distance.
There is just a single benefit of this method that rows remain in the equal distance , but even seed would be felt by Keira or Pora method , it can not be distributed equally.
There is also the need of the optimum distance among the rows and plants.
Simultaneously , this is also not less important that the impact of the direct sowing or transplantation over the production of the coarse grains is an important field of the loss-gain testing.
Almost all coarse grains are the important crops of the dry farming or dry areas and their sowing could be done by putting seeds directly , if plants of the millet or made are transplanted then there is likely to increase in yielding.
The area of coarse grains is not less , even though proper attention could not be given to their cropping-methods.
In this method there is its own importance of the sowing timing.
Dry land cluster bean : the right timing of the sowing in the temperate climate depends on the temperature and the soil moisture but in our country in the areas these cereal crops are sown in which the available moisture present in the soil is more important in comparison to the temperature.
It will not be unfair to say this that it will not be right to sow even there is good temperature but lack of the soil moisture because germination of the seed will be impossible in the lack of the soil moisture.
Hence it is an established fact that the sowing time of these areas depends on the moisture found in the soil.
For best germination and better growth of the cluster bean , at the sowing time , 70-80 F temperature is must in the optimum soil depth where cluster beans are sown.
Hence , sowing has been assumed useful in the presence of the optimum soil moisture.
There is the need of the Presence of the such moisture's amount in the heavy soil that land could be cultivated easily.
This moisture of the soil will be little less than the holding capacity , but in the light soil it will be proper to sow in the early moisture condition of the water holding capacity.
Often in our country sowing of the cluster bean depends on the rains to start.
Despite that there is impact of the whole life span of the variety and place over the sowing time.
Growth of the long term variety is generally with slow rate whereas short term variety grows quickly.
Hence sowing of the variety with long life span has to do early than the variety with the short life span.
In the southern area cluster bean is sown twice generally and sometimes its three crops are harvested.
This is the result of the weather adversity which is the precious gift of the nature because through this seed of the new varieties can be cultivated in more quantity in the least time.
The sowing of the Kharif cluster bean depends on the start of the monsoon.
If rain is started at the right time then work of the sowing is started at the right time.
From the study of the available research information and experiment it is known that generally after the 10-15 days of the start of the rain of the monsoon in the northern and central regions in the second fortnight of the July the work of the sowing is started.
In the method of the cultivation of the local varieties the enough attention is not paid to the sowing time.
There may be many reasons for this such as fertility of these varieties was less and instead of profession agriculture work was just a mean of livelihood.
If there was no production of grains due to some reasons then farmers used to get satisfied from the production of the fodder itself.
The problem of the insects and diseases was not such huge hence less attention was paid to this side.
Actually , much attention was paid to this aspect after the development of the varieties which give more production because advance cultivation costs more.
Hence to get the complete benefit from this it was assumed mandatory from the economic perspective to establish the mutual harmony among all the cultivation methods.
Under the All Indian Sorghum Reformation Scheme and PL 480 Scheme , many experiments were done in the different areas cultivating cluster bean.
Among these hybrid and local varieties of the sorghum were included.
The motivation of this research work was to get maximum production from the new varieties and simultaneously to develop the new methods to control the pests and main diseases.
Very important and useful results were got from the experiments done while sowing.
While interpreting the results of the experiments done under All Indian Cluster bean Reformation Scheme Singh -LRB- 1974 -RRB- mentioned that whatever experiments have been done from 1968 to 1973 , it clearly comes out from that the optimum timing to sow the Kharif cluster bean is after the rain of the monsoon starts.
This period is different in the dry areas and different parts of the country.
From the results of the experiments it comes to know that in the dry parts production of the cluster bean which was sown before the start of the monsoon was highest.
Production was reduced significantly when its sowing was done after three weeks from the rain began.
To know the best time to sow the cluster bean experiments were also done for three years -LRB- 1970-1972 -RRB- in the Indore center.
There was no significant difference in the production of the cluster beans sown in 23 or 30 June in 1970 , but production of the cluster beans sown on 7th July was less.
In fact , production of the cluster beans sown on 15th July reduced by 23.5-24.0 quintal per hectare its mean such growth in the production could be done by the sowing on the time.
Like this maximum production got from the cluster beans shown on 22 June at 1971.
Although fertility of the cluster beans sown on 29th June and 6th July was almost similar.
But the production of the cluster beans sown on 23rd July or 2nd August was very less.
Like this it is approved that the best time for the sowing of the cluster beans in the Indore region is 20-25 June , the fertility of the cluster beans sown in this period is high.
Hence at this time cluster bean must be shown at least in the irrigated areas.
To get the highest level of the productivity of the newly developed varieties it is beneficial to sow it in the first fortnight of the July.
From the perspective of to get the best time to sow the cluster bean many research has been done in the Indian Agriculture Research Institute.
This came to know from the results of these experiments that it is possible to get the commendable production from the cluster beans sown during the last week of the June or first week of the July.
From all the results this conclusion comes that it is possible to get more production by sowing the cluster seeds timely at least in irrigated areas.
But this question arises that eventually why is it not possible to sow the cluster beans in time or is there any arrangement through that cluster beans could be sown during the best period.
As for example if after leveling it would rain then there is a possibility of the late in the cultivation of the sorghum unwillingly even.
Sometimes it rains continuously for weeks or ten days and farm does not come in the condition to sow , it gets late in such condition.
The farmer should solve such problems by himself taking care of the experience of the local climate cycle.
In the south India it is a normal and popular method to take the ratoon of the cluster beans but this method is popular in the North India.
By the way it is also possible in this area to cultivate the ratoon of the cluster beans.
At this subject writer himself has done the experiments in the Indian Agricultural Research Institute.
The main objective of this experiment was to get green fodder in the beginning of July by sowing cluster beans in the summer weather in other words in the month of May-June.
Simultaneously this is also that possibility of the delay in the sowing of the irrigated cluster bean can be reduced.
After harvesting the wheat crop in May sowing of the cluster bean was done by using 17 kilo seeds per hectare.
Swarn and CSH-1 varieties had been chosen for this experiment.
Summer crop of the cluster bean had been harvested after almost 80 days of sowing for fodder.
Production of the fodder was 500 quintal per hectare.
This is the thing to pay attention that cluster bean had been harvested for fodder at the state of budding.
There were two reasons of it , one was this that healthy and more saplings would come out in the Peri sorghum , the second is this that the quantity of the hydrocynic acid should be at the determined secure level so that consumer animals should not have possibility to be harmed by this acid.
While cutting the fodder plant should be harvested at the height of the two or three inches from the ground.
By doing this crop of the Peri becomes good because in the remaining part number of the eyes are enough and germination of the saplings is satisfactory.
Growth and development rate of the Peri cluster bean was found much better than planted cluster bean.
Cluster beans sown simply , raise very slowly in the first month.
From that possibility of the attack of the pests and diseases is more because plants have less immunity against diseases etc.
During this period weeds also harm tremendously.
But crop of the Peri cluster bean covers the land completely after 15-20 days of the fodder harvesting in other words it grows quickly.
The result comes due to this that crop oppress weeds completely and they do not harm it significantly.
Likewise attack of the shoot flies is even negligible.
Hence crop of the Peri cluster bean is healthy for every aspect and number of the plants per hectare is optimum also.
Continuous raining also does not have bad impact over peri cluster bean because when times come fodder could be harvested even on the day of the raining.
There is certain possibility to cultivate the peri of the cluster beans in the North India and due to this production of the grain as well as fodder is significantly better.
But then there is the need to do more experiments now on this subject.
Actually , this is essential to know that which variety is better for especially cluster bean , peri.
In the variety , which have more gemination of the saplings from the lower part that variety is best to cultivate as peri.
Here it seems justifiable to inform that in some part of the North India peri of the cluster beans is being taken for fodder and till now no any example to harm the animals was found.
During summer period after one or two monsoon rains it has found safe to harvest it for fodder.
The summary is this that in the irrigated area , transplanting first crop of the cluster bean in the summer period fodder could be taken from the first crop and second crop could be kept for peri.
From that it is easy to reduce the instability of the weather and other bad effect.
Not just this , cluster bean could be left for the next crop at the best time so that maximum possible production of the irrigated cluster bean could be taken.
Before that the talk related to the best timing for sowing would be started this is essential to know that the cluster bean shown at the best time has not to face the lack of the moisture in the soil generally.
The results of the experiment show that if there is a lack of the moisture in the soil at the time of the budding then it gets bad effect over production of the grains.
If sowing of the crop is timely then possibility to come such condition becomes almost negligible.
The best timing to show is decided on the basis of the speculation of the weather expert scientist and own experiences.
The main objective of this method was to present as a beneficial solution to the delay in sowing due to continuous raining.
After being rained in comparison of the sowing it get the benefit of some time also.
From that it becomes possible to get the maximum production of the crop , but it is essential that there should be anticipation of the date of the raining.
This is not an easy work , even though after collecting figures of many decades related to the rain , their explanation has been done and still is being done.
On the basis of this description forecasting about the starting date of the monsoon raining could be done on the basis of the cycle.
On the basis of this information the timing to sow the cluster bean could be decided or is decided.
The map of the whole country rain is available but there is the need of the thing that this information would be reached out to farmers by the right way in the right form so that they may use this important information and could get the benefit by sowing at the approved time.
Due to availability of the irrigation resources approved best date or period could be pursued but at the matter of the cluster bean of the Kharif period it is not easy to follow this approval completely because uncertainty of the rain is equal in the both dry land irrigated areas.
The best period to sow the cluster bean in the Indore and other areas of such climate is the last weak of the June.
At this time by sowing cluster beans with the grains of the cluster bean production of the dry fodder are also better in comparison to the crop which is sown late.
this means that cluster bean which has been sown early has high vegetative growth.
In the climate of the Koimbtoure Kharif's cluster bean must be sown till third week of the July otherwise there is a heavy loss in its production.
Beside grains the production of the fodder also reduces.
But there is less impact over the production of the fodder in comparison to the grains.
Due to untimely especially delayed sowing the weight of the grains of the cluster bean and numbers of the ear grains reduces.
There is also a bad impact of the sowing time over Rabi cluster bean like Karif cluster bean.
In the Rabi weather cluster bean is transplanted in the Tamilnadu , Karnataka , Andhra Parades and Maharashtra.
Climate is such in these states that crop of the cluster bean could be cultivated whole year and it could be harvested three times in a year.
This is the gift of the nature.
There are many benefits of this like work to increase the seed is done in these parts itself.
New varieties of the seed could be produced in enough quantity in a year itself and could be reached to other parts of the country before the main weather starts.
Perhaps it might be known to you that due to this gift of the nature Crop Reformation schemes have had huge progress in the small time.
Example of this is the occurrence of the green revolution due to hybrid varieties of the cluster bean and millet and advance varieties of the wheat seeds.
In fact , the early sown cluster bean uses the stored moisture of the soil completely.
Likewise growth of the crop happens in the cycle that at every stage of the crop soil-water exists and crops become ready by ripening before the moisture of the soil lasts.
The results of the experiments show that production of the cluster bean could be increased by 80-81 percent sowing cluster bean before a month during the proper time.
Here an obvious question arises that why even knowing all these things its sowing is delayed.
Farmers sow the cotton on the start of the north-eastern monsoon because this is a more beneficial crop , when sowing of the cotton completes then chance to sow the cluster bean comes.
During this the best time of the sowing passes out.
Due to this the production of the Rabi cluster gets low.
Despite that for the Rabi weather advance varieties is also used less.
The combined impact of all these reasons reduces the yielding.
The area where just one crop of the cluster bean in a year is possible to take , in those area problem doesn't come to sow the cluster bean before a month or even before that.
But where cluster bean is sown during Kharif and Rabi both weathers , in those areas there is a possibility of the heavy loss due to stem borer fly.
Through early sowing it is possible to take more yielding.
The impact of the stem borer fly also could be lessened.
Simultaneously it is necessary to say that the amount and distribution of the rainfall have its own importance because there is the need of the enough moisture in the soil for the good yielding of the early cluster bean.
Beside moisture temperature and sunlight also have their own importance.
Actually after mid October it is not appropriate to show the Rabi cluster bean from the perspective of the production.
It came to know from the study done in the Bijapur that CSH-1 is the best for the early sowing and and CSB-7 and M-35-1 for the later sowing.
Likewise M-35-1 was proven good in the Belar for later sowing.
But at the Raychur and Rahoori center no significant difference was found in the yielding of the varieties.
In the southern plateau still Hagari and Maladani varieties of the cluster bean are popular because the impact of the stem borer fly is less over them and could resist properly the condition of the dryness.
But production of these varieties is less in comparison to new and advance varieties.
For the Rabi weather it is must to select proper varieties or to make the hybrid varieties which could give better production.
These varieties are almost free from the impact of the stem borer fly and posses the ability to tolerate maximum drought.
Like cluster bean there is a great impact of the sowing time over the yielding of the millet.
Perhaps you might be knowing that only three percent area of the cluster bean is irrigated.
Hence 97 percent area depends on the rain itself.
A good yielding may be achieved by bringing the significant change in the popular farming techniques.
It came to know from the results of the experiments which have been done till now that it is beneficial to sow the cluster bean before its popular sowing time because yielding of the hybrid cluster beans sown in time is more it means that its production capacity is high.
To get the maximum yielding from the hybrid cluster bean it should be shown in the mid of the July in the Hisar and the areas around it.
The best timing to sow the irrigated hybrid cluster bean is the first fortnight of the July.
The day sowing was done , if it would rain at the same day then cluster bean does not grow and it is called Panpit.
After Panpit either there is no accumulation or is very thin or less.
Thus the number of plants per unit remain quite less and production reduces heavily and if the sowing will be done again then it becomes a late crop.
With the purpose to solve these problems the sowing method of the cluster bean and direct sowing was compared in the Indian Agricultural Research Institute and other Agricultural universities.
Often paddy crop is enable to complete its life cycle in the lack of the water , while transplantation it is absolutely necessary to water fill in the farm and for direct sowing also there is the need of the farm to be wet.
Other side saplings of the millet could be sown in the mold and some heavy variety of the soil on the basis of their moisture holding capacity.
While transplanting sapling if it would rain for one or two times even then transplanted plants hold the root.
It is the writer's own experience that if rainfall comes till 5-6 days of the transplantation of the saplings then transplanted plants hold the root.
Despite that due to excess moisture in the night during the last week of the July and the month of the August dew drop falls , from that plants gets great help to hold the root.
Simultaneously transplantation could be done with the little change in the cultivation methods.
If the ridge and canals would be formed by plough then rain water could be prevented and sapling could be transplanted in the canals itself.
If monsoon rainfall does not start in the June last or the first week of the July then sapling of the cluster bean should be transplanted.
In the agricultural departments of the state collective sapling should be cultivated and on the need farmers should be made saplings available.
If due to some reason sapling would not be sold out then it is possible to use crop sown in the nursery in the form of the fodder.
Plants which suffer from the green leaf disease -LRB- Romal fungus or Dawny mildue -RRB- could be cropped while transplantation of the sapling and loss due to this disease could be reduced.
Due to preparation of the farm before transplantation of the sapling problem of the weeds resolves to some extent.
Before transplantation of the sapling it is also good to cut the upper portion of the plant's leaves but take care that growth point of the plant does not get hurt.
The main purpose of this method is to reduce the water loss due to evaporation.
While taking sapling out of the nursery it should be taken care that the roots do not be damaged hence before taking out sapling water should be enclosed in the sapling depot so that the soil would be wet and the roots of the plants will not be broken.
If the work of the transplantation has to be done in the sun then few plants should be taken out from the sapling depot at a time and they should be kept in the shady place.
It will be good that the roots of the plant would be kept dipping in the water.
Like cluster bean and millet sowing time also has a huge impact over production of the madua but any significant research has not been done on this aspect.
The main reason of this is that area of the madua is very scattered and it has been kept untouched from the modern and scientific methods of the cultivation because it is not treated as any important crop.
This is the surprising thing that in the beginning of this century itself famous book of the writer Dr. Lessi C Kalmen ' Madua ki Maisoor me Kheti ' was published.
In this book all the works done till that time have been described in detail.
Calman reviewed the results of the experiment done from the year 1909 to 1914 at the sowing time in this book about him and mentioned in summary that this experiment was done in the Bangalore.
There was always less yielding got from the sowing which was made between 1st July to 1st August than the sowing which was made before 1st July.
It came to know from the experiments done in the last ten years that the best time to sow the madua is the month of the July.
Crop cultivated in this month saves from the effect of the drought , pests and diseases.
But this question raises that can crop like madua be sown at the best t e ?
This is the crop which is sown especially in the dry parts and its sowing depends on the fall of the rain.
By taking care of these factors under the All Indian program of the Coarse Grain Reformation Scheme some experiments were done by taking the varieties which produce high.
In the South India three crops of the madua could be taken in a year it means it could be cultivated in the summer and winter weathers.
Beside sowing time , the method of the sowing and techniques also have a vital impact over the yielding of the media.
It comes to know from the experiments which are started in this century that high yielding was got from the madua which have been sown in the row.
Although this sowing process of the crop was not much better than Utera.
But to control the weeds etc. became easy and almost equal distance could be kept among plants.
From such different experiments yielding of madua was found much more form the utera method of the sowing.
Presentation of the method to sow in the rows was made in the farmer's land and the importance of the sowing madua in the row was explained to them.
It was told to farmers that now these are planted in the row mostly.
Yes , at least it is must that in the dry parts it is still sown by scattering.
The non-existent job has been done at the sowing time of the other coarse grains : cornice , Kodo , mite etc.
Actually whenever it rained of the monsoon -LRB- early or late -RRB- and got time after sowing of all crops , then coarse grains are sown.
Sometimes if monsoon rain comes very late from its time and no time left to sow any other crops then these coarse grains were sown.
Its mean that no best sowing time was tested for it and not even it was emphasized to sow these grains in time.
Sometimes these crops are planted with the other important crops its mean , while sowing the important crops these crops are also sown.
There is no well-founded arrangement of the grain storage in the Hariyana.
Nearly 57 million metric tons food grain of the state is lying in the open.
Although the government has started to control this problem by deciding to make the Godown of the 22 million metric tons capacity.
In the state the capacity of the food grain storage is 84.23 million tons.
State's own godowns food grain storage capacity is 48.79 million tons.
Godowns with the capacity of the 5.24 million tons have been created under the Private Entrepreneur Guarantee Scheme.
Storage of the 30.20 million tons food grains is done in the can or in open.
The government also assumes this arrangement as storage capacity.
Right now the state has 70 million 60 thousand 425 metric ton food grains.
In this only 13 million 16 thousand 421 metric tons food grains is safe in the covered area -LRB- godowns -RRB-.
57 million 44 thousand 3 metric tons good grain is reclined in the open.
In the condition of any natural calamity this grain can not be saved.
Even this time precious grains of the billion rupees could be lost to rain in the open.
The purchasing of the rice of the Kharif season has not been completed yet and there is just a week for starting of the wheat purchasing season.
Other side , despite of the critical condition of the storage , food management of the government is sitting idle.
In the coming 1st June till the procurement will be finished there will be more than 9 billion tons of the stock of the food grains , which will be the highest ever.
It will be a big challenge for the government to take care of this huge amount of the food grains.
The eyes of the central government which kept silent for a years to evacuate the gardens is opened now.
In the hustle and bustle , though the decision was taken to export nearly one billion wheat but in this , exportation of only 25 million tons has been possible yet.
For the exportation of the private traders 50 millions amount of the wheat has been assigned , but looking at the clauses of the exportation there is less chance to accomplish this transaction.
In the country , during last two years record production in the agriculture has been done.
Due to unforesightful government policies private traders were kept far from the procurement.
Whereas government without thinking about it have been buying rice and wheat blindly.
In the stock of the government in against of the Buffer Standard and Strategic Standard was many times more grains.
And against of it the facility of the grain storage were shortened.
Therefore million tons of the grain had to keep under the open sky at different places covering from the polythene.
According to the statistics of the Food Ministry beside central and state the total storage capacity of the private godowns is 6.1 crore tons.
In this unstable godowns made in open are also included.
Last year on 1st June stock of the food grains was 8.2 million tons , due to storage of that , condition of the government was worst.
But in the coming wheat procurement season starting from 1st April the this quantity of the food grains will be even more than 9 million tons.
Before purchaseing of the wheat starts purchasing of the rice is going to reach its highest level.
The purchasing of the rice has become 2.82 million tons till the second week of March , which is more than the last year's 2.72 million tons of this period.
In the different markets even now 1.79 billion rice is being purchased daily.
The difference between the demand and availability of the godowns has increased yearly.
After adding every kind of the storage capacity government can not store more than seven million tons food grains.
In this temporary godowns capacity is also included.
Whereas stock of the food grains will increase higher than 9 crore tons.
Regarding this palpitation of the food ministry has increased.
Officers are suffocating.
Its mean there is complete chance of the wastage of the 2 crore tons food grains.
How many attempts would be done from the techniques like polyethylene and other unstable resources by our policy-makers , but it is certain to have the loss of rupees in crore.
After green revolution , storage facility was not thought of in respect of the increase in the production of the food grains.
For the food security to food grain storage and its operation government has established the Food Corporation of India -LRB- FCI -RRB- and the Central Warehousing Corporation -LRB- CWC -RRB-.
Its activities remained limited to the states which have green revolution.
The godowns were made but beside Punjab , Haryana and Western Uttar Pradesh nothing has happened in the other part of the nation.
Looking at the need of the ration system storage agencies were made in the states.
But due to limited resources except Chattisgadh , Madhya Pradesh , Andhra Pradesh condition of the other states remained same.
Production in the agricultural field became more than the domestic demand.
But by this respect FCI did not increase the limit of food grain storage.
Hence , logical solution was not thought about the imbalance between the storage facility and the need.
New godowns were made in the states where storage facility was already available.
Looking at the need of the strategic storage with the food security government set up the mind to give the opportunity to the private investors , but half heartedly.
It is a result of that , that the attempts of the government are proving insufficient.
Actually , in front of the government there is a most vital problem of the credence and reliability of the policies.
Which conditions and facilities are have been announced to give to the private investors , investors are not being attracted from that.
The rent of the godowns which has been fixed years back , their rate of the rent is not being modified.
In comparison of those the rent of the temporary godowns which store covering by tarpaulin is more than old godowns.
Condition is becoming worsen instead of becoming better due to no change in the work method of the FCI which is lost to bureaucracy.
There is a lack of the tactical stability , due to that investors are not coming front to build the godowns.
The condition of the extensity of the godowns is that worst , that after purchasing from Bihar rice go to Ludhiyana , rice become ready in their rice mill and then rice reach of the markets of the Bihar.
Government does not have attention to such irregularities.
From the agricultural ministry it has been decided to make the godawns in every village , but this scheme did not reach to villages.
In the Punjab which is leading in the agricultural production , FCI and other agencies have storage capacity of the food grains is about 25 lakh tons , but in this there is covered storage of nearly 10 lakh tons.
Rest storage is done in the temporary godowns -LRB- plinth -RRB- made under the open sky.
Plinth means storage is done over the setup made on the land which is covered by the tarpaulin.
To remove the problem of the storage it has been trying to increase the storage capacity constantly through the private sector.
Last year itself through Pangrain 27 godowns were made by the private sector and godowns of the 3 lakh metric tons is suppose to handover to the FCI by pangrain.
However , after the center's permission building of the plinth with the 4 lakh metric tons storage capacity is also supposed to be started.
From this the storage capacity of the state will be increased.
However , in the Amritsar district by a company of the private sector ultra-modern covered godown of the 50 thousand metric tons has been made , where facility of the all the scientific methods like temperature regulator is available.
There is possibility that on the basis of the PPP the green single will be given to the building of such more godowns.
Earlier farmers of our country used to do storage in the home.
Then farmer used to play its role in the three levels of the agriculture -LRB- Production , storage , marketing -RRB-.
Now it is not happening so is the actual root of this problem.
In the old days farmers used to preserve grains in the traditional manners from one season to another season.
Due to this the need of the villagers related to grains used to be fulfilled at the low cost.
Today if government wish then this condition could be applied through the Gram Panchayat system.
Today due to insecurity of the grain farmers have to be helpless to sell the grains just after the harvesting.
After harvesting at which minimum support price procurement is done , if that procurement from the farmer would be done later , during that period the proper amount would be given in addition with MSP to the farmer for the secure storage of the grains then with the solution of the storage farmers will get extra income also.
For the more time period if farmers would get proper incentives then due to this , financial problems will not come to arrange the resources related to the storage to the farmers.
In the state to build the godowns for the farmers provision of the help was done , but the amount is not being used.
There is role of the Consumer Protection , Cooperative and Agriculture Department in the construction of the godowns for the grain storage.
Through them the construction of the godown is done in the government , cooperative and private sector.
At the government and the cooperative level storage capacity is 9.48 lakh tons at present , whereas in the year 2011-12 , 177.62 lakh tons grain has been produced.
Government gives five lakh rupees in grant to the farmers for the godown construction of the 100 tons storage capacity at their level.
There is a provision of the help also if the roof is made of the asbestos.
There is no restriction to the farmer to make the solid roof.
The government grant will be given five lakhs itself but farmers are free to spend maximum amount.
Beside that , there is also 50 % subsidy over the metal store of the 5 to 20 quintal storage capacity to the farmer by the government.
Due to this there will be the storage facility available in every house of the farmer.
In the year 2011-12 , instead of the aim of the 300 grain store only 161 was constructed by farmers.
In this respect in against of 15 crore just 3.88 crore rupees were used.
In the metal store in comparison of 8.46 crore just 6.28 crore was invested.
In the financial year 2012-13 instead of the prescribed amount 5 crore for the metal store just 3.35 crore could be used.
During this period 500 gardens of the 200 metric tons capacity were supposed to be constructed by the farmers.
For this , from the provision of the 25 crores only 4.31 crore was used.
To settle the grain storage problem government has moved to the Private Public Partnership Model -LRB- PPP Model -RRB- but toward this such interest of the private involvement did not come forward got to see in other schemes.
After the application of the Food Security Bill the condition of the grain storage will be worsened more.
Then there will have to do the arrangement of the extra 100 laks tons food grain storage , for that There is no arrangements in the Uttar Pradesh.
At the present moment in the UP the maximum food grain storage is just 44 lakh tons whereas mostly -LRB- in June -RRB- there is the need of godowns of the maximum 70 lakh tons storage capacity.
Food Corporation of India has godowns of the 14 lakh metric tons.
Beside that , the State Warehousing Corporation , Central Warehousing Corporation , PCF and Mandi Samiti have the capacity to store 15.85 lakh metric tons.
Rest with the help of the private sector food grains are stored.
According to official statistics , according to the need of the storage of the food grains -LRB- wheat and rice -RRB- at least there is the need for the construction of the 26 lakh tons storage.
To encourage the private investment now government is going to bring the new government policy.
According to the sources , in this guarantee to take the godowns on the rent for ten years will be given to the private sector on those which are constructed by them.
These godowns will be situated in those places , where there will be maximum need of the storage.
Although to increase the storage capacity of the food grains , on the instruction of the central government on the basis of the Public-Private Partnership it was supposed to complete the construction of the godowns of the 26.81 lakh tons capacity two years back , but now godwns of the 6 lakh metric tons could not be completed even.
The main secretory Javed Usmani has given the instruction to complete it any how till March.
Simultaneously he has told to bring the speed in the construction of the rest godowns of the 21 lakh tons capacity.
On the instruction of the central government four years back from now in the different districts at 56 places on the basis of the PPP Model godowns were supposed to be constructed.
Situation is this that till now at many places for the godowns just site inspection work could be done.
Grain storage problem has remained same.
Due to government policies the private investor considers it loss making barter whereas government attempts are proving insufficient.
In such case , like old period if encouragement would be given to the arrangement of the storage by the farmers themselves then at the large extent problem could be settled.
For this , farmers will have to take care of the little things while making the warehouse.
Under the first step of the storage this is mandatory to decide that the moisture of the grain would be abated completely.
In the second step the design of the storage construction and the material which is used to be taken care.
However in the whole country there is the need of the special design to save from moisture , rats , funguses but being a vast country here geogrophical condition , climate and soil of the every region is different.
That's why , according to the local conditions there is the need to design the storage construction in different areas.
On this matter there is the need to give attention to the capacity of the farmers to spend.
It should be completely waterproof.
Even roof should be covered simultaneously so that when it will be open then accumulated water would drain first and water could not go inside any how.
In condition of the room , such arrangement of the windows and doors should be done that water should not reach inside.
From the arictecture point of view , many methods may be successful in the construction of the storage setup.
Due the possibility of the water clog construction should be done on the heighten place.
In the condition of the danger of the draught and in respective of the labor , construction should be lifted from the land with the help of the setup of the concrete or steel or wood.
It should be kind of the place , which place gets enough sunlight.
In the condition if setup is outside then it should not be under the tree groves or near the buildings but should be in the open area.
Setup should not be constructed in the north direction of the mound or hill.
Due to this sunlight will be interrupted.
According to the principal of the architecture grain storage should be done in the north-west direction.
The deepest impact of the inflation has been done over food stuffs , especially vegetables.
Situations are such that for the cost cutting in the kitchen of the town the quantity of the green vegetables have been lessened.
But what will happen if a technique would be developed to grow the vegetables in the house and to give yielding of the millions just in hundred-two hundred yards l d ?
With such exercise itself Indian Agriculture Research Institute , Pusa is organizing the agricultural fair.
In the fair institute is going to take off the curtain from such techniques , from that people who stay in the cities like Delhi-NCR could grow vegetables in the container , balcony , roof of the house or outside in the open land.
With this technique by increasing the nutrients in the vegetables , by the nutrient security , fruit-vegetable processing etc. the work to increase the income could be done also.
If believe on the scientists , to fulfill the needs of the food , success has been got till some extent.
Now the main problem is the lack of the nutrients in the eating habit.
Due to that every third child which take birth is the victim of the malnutrition.
By taking care of this , now there is emphasis over to increase the nutrients of the fruits and vegetables.
For this things are being prepared by processing the fruits-vegetables , in that vitamin , iron , zink etc is present in the proper amount.
Grow vegetable on the roof and in the balcony : Director of the Indian Agriculture Research Institute Dr. HS Gupta said that vegetables could be grown in the container and vases.
Scientists of the institute are encouraging this technique.
On the balcony or roof , cauliflower , red cauliflower with spinach leafy vegetables can be cultivated.
Less Land , income of millions : Pusa institute has developed such low cost poly house technique , from that , by producing vegetables and their seeds in the 100 yard of the land in the cities millions can be earned.
Passing valentine day it has not even been a month.
In India , this day became more popular due to the nuisance of the cultural guards.
This day is also remembered for the sell of the roses in the country to express the love and record exportation in the abroad.
Reputation of the flower of the Bengluru and Pune has been established in the whole world and due to temptation of the government encouragement and to earn the foreign currency new fields are emerging.
Himachal Pradesh and Sikkim are emerging as a new center of the flowers cultivation and exportation.
The dreaded drought in the Maharashtra has made the hype in which closer of the many electric stations is also included which provide electricity to the state.
Famous journalist P Sainath has pointed the finger to which reasons while describing this crisis , in those popularity of the rose cultivation is prominent.
Rose is the plant which demands too much water , nearly 20 times more in comparison of the wheat and paddy.
To grow a flower of the rose , about ten liter water is needed.
In the Maharashtra even the crop of the sugar cane absorbs fourfold more water in comparison of the wheat and paddy.
Government policies -LRB- export of the flower of about hundred crore rupees -RRB- to move towards the new production -LRB- taking care of foreign markets flowers are got more encouragement -RRB- by abandoning the traditional cycle of the cultivation have been made by just taking account of the present , but eyes are closed to their long term social and environmental side-effects.
There is a complete speculation of the water crisis of the Maharashtra being country wide.
Rose , symbol of the tenderness and love is also becoming a huge reason of the soil water crisis.
Its capital Bengluru is also called as the city of the roses.
Here in the area of the nursery of the export oriented flowers like rose increased by 15 percent , but no growth in the production was seen.
Due to lack of skilled gardeners , increase in the rates of the electricity and fall in the level of soil water production can not grow also.
The initial cost of the techniques to maintain the favorable temperature inside the greenhouse is high , for this there is need of the good amount of the electricity.
Pushkar of the Rajasthan and Haldi Ghati area has been famous since centuries for the traditional cultivation of the rose and products like rose water and gulkand , but due to the falling level of the soil water since last few years their production and trading have reduced quickly there.
It did not pass many days , when in the Pushkar more than three-fourth of the land had been used in the cultivation of the rose , but now the scenario of there seems changed.
Gradually due to lack of the water deep red color of the rose from there converted into pink color ; the variety of the red rose demands more water.
Many countries of the Africa which is flagrant for its hot climate play the important role in the world flower trade.
Before some time back news had come that the largest trader of the flowers in the world is an Indian , who has started the farming of the flowers in the Ethopiya by purchasing a land fivefold bigger than the area of the Mumbai.
Nawasha lake of the Kenya makes available a favorable climate for the flowers cultivation and exportation of the rose which is grown there has an important part in the country's economy.
Netherland , Britain and Germany which are quite aware of the climate , are the biggest buyer of those flowers.
When condition of this life giving lack which was suffering from water storage started to be worsening , then several studies mentioned the reason of the flower business of the Keneya of this.
This is interesting that organizations like Oxygen to the buying roses from Ethopia rise up in the dock on the moral ground.
Saying of it is that Multinational company's clamp is how conniving that just 3 percent of the market price reaches to Ethiopia and rest ninety seven percent in the safe of the rich countries.
Price of the onion in Delhi has been blazed by the refusal of the Nashik of the Maharashtra.
Supply of the onion was less before the low yielding.
Then due to less supply from the Nashik of the Maharashtra its price increased.
On the Friday as 45 truck onion reached from Nashik , the rate in the wholesale market fall down to 18 to 22.
Traders are saying that the price of the onion will fall down more in next one to two days , because nearly 50 truck onion is in the Azadpuri before the price has risen up.
Although , people have to purchase onion in the retail at the rate of the 30-35 rupees per kilo.
It is saying of the traders that price has not increased all of the sudden.
Possiblity about this was from earlier , but the government did not pay the attention.
According to the traders , this year farmers had done less sowing of the onion.
Due to less yielding in the wholesale market the minimum rate did not go below the 14 rupees , whereas in 2012 at this time the minimum rate had reduced to 5 rupees.
At the same , price of the diesel increased.
Due to it the per kilo rent which was two and half rupees , that became three and half rupees.
Meanwhile exportation of the onion remained same as before.
It is saying of the well known agriculture scientist Dr. MS Swaminathan that in the proposed food security bill the government has ignored the farmers and local corporate body completely.
To increase the food grain production emphasizing over the importance of the Minimum Supporting Price -LRB- MSP -RRB- Dr. Swaminathan has described the need of the Minimum Supporting Price of the wheat 1,450 rupees per quintal by increasing from 1,285 rupees per quintal.
It is saying of him that in spite of the increase in the farming cost the supporting price of the wheat has kept as equal to last year , that's why it has not been announced yet.
He has said that at looking at the increasing expenditure of the farming the government should decide the MSP for the wheat twofold more than the spending.
While addressing the debate on the topic Starving in India organized by the Commonwealth Journalist Association and the Akshaya Patra Foundation Dr. Swaminathan has termed dangerous even to the scheme of the cash instead of the ration.
Advocating the right of food to all he said that to ascertain the food security the government will have to work by taking with farmers and Gram Sabha.
But in the proposed Food Security Bill They have been ignored completely.
While demanding for the Minimum Supporting price of the pulses also he admitted it essential to fix the double MSP than spending for wheat.
While participating in the conference Abhijeet Mukharjee expressed concern over the reduction of the farming land continuously.
He emphasized the need of the better use of the budget being spent in MANREGA.
At this event , adviser of the Supreme Court Comissioner Biraj Patnayak said that like security at issue of the food security also there should be consensus above party politics.
Admitting proposed Food Security Bill disappointing Patnayak said that India the second largest economy of the world is the biggest center of the hunger and malnutrition.
But this is the best indication that now in the country this issue is being accepted and court has played an important role in this.
Expert of the agriculture policy Devendra Sharma has mentioned the rapid occupation of the cultivating land dangerous for the food security.
Sharma has claimed that the decision to make 8 expressway which has been taken in Mayavati tenure , from that 25 thousand villages will be effected and food crisis may occur in the largest grain producer state of the country.
In the Uttar Pradesh , by the merchandising center of the Food Corporation of the India -LRB- FCI -RRB- and rice mills in the Lok Sabha on Friday a fierce storm occurred on the quibbling issue of the purchasing of the rice on the supporting price.
Out of the way from the party line after raising question on this issue by member of parliament Jagadambika Pal , members of the parties like SP , BJP and RJP etc. demanded the answer over negligence in the rice procurement.
At this issue , proceeding was also interrupted for two times.
Later , after coming and answering in the parliament by the minister on the issue of the food and consumer members became calm down.
The minister said in the parliament that for the investigation of the FCI centers he has sent a team to UP.
In the afternoon session raising the issue of the harassment of the farmers at the FCI centers Jagdambika Pal said that officers of the cooperative are sending farmers back by showing moisture in the paddy.
In helplessness farmers have to sell the paddy to the private shopkeepers at the lower price than supporting price.
After this SP supremo Mulayam Singh Yadav has shown a quite aggressive posturing on this issue.
He said that last year FCI has rejected 90 thousand metric tons rice which was taken under LEVI later saying that its quality is not good.
This is the reason that this time in the Uttar Pradesh rice is not being purchased at the supporting price by rice mills.
On the other side FCI is also troubling farmers.
According to the sources , in this meeting of the CCEA there is possibility to fix the FRP of the sugar cane for 2013-14 crushing season.
In the running crushing season 2012-13 FRP of the sugar cane is 170 rupees per quintal.
FRP is actually the legally fixed minimum price for the sugarcane farmers.
Sugar mills can pay to the sugarcane farmers more than this price.
Agriculture Minister Sharad Pawar has said that due to revive in the supply from the Gujarat , Rajasthan and Maharashtra in the next few days the price of the onion will come down.
Agriculture Ministry gave this information here during the program that matter of the onion will be solved in the few days.
There is a proper storage of the onion in the country.
In the coming days there is the hope of the better supply.
In the some parts of the Gujrat , Rajasthan and Maharashtra after the 15 February , arrival of the new crop will be started.
In the fear of the reduction of the production in the last few day prices of the onion have increased unexpectedly.
According to the government statistics in the national capital the price of the onion by increasing more than twofold has become 31 rupees per kilo , which in last year during this period was 13 rupees per kilo.
In the North India Pawar said on the reason of the onion's increasing price , " I have got information from Nashik and also talked with some traders ".
Their complaint is that to supply the onion in the country's northern part wagons are not being available to them.
In the wholesale rate of the Azadpur Market the price of the onion must have fallen down but in the retail price of the onion is still remained 30 rupees to 40 rupees.
Officers of the Delhi Agriculture Board say that price of the onion had increased due to changes in the climate.
But the new crop has started to arrive.
Due to that in the wholesale market the price of the onion has started to fall.
Development Minister of the Delhi Raj Kumar Chauhan said while releasing the statement that in the capital the price of the onion started to be reduced due to increase in the supply of the onion on Saturday.
The supply of the onion in the Azadpur market was 70 trucks and 10 tempos -LRB- 1500 tons -RRB- , whereas 50 trucks -LRB- 900 tons -RRB- onions of the Friday has been left.
Because of this reason on Friday 2400 tons onion was available in the market.
Due to more supply in the wholesale rate of the onion reduction of three rupees per kilo was registered.
Chauhan has told that due to the attempts of the Delhi Government itself price of the onion has reached from 8.75 to 22 rupees per kilo.
This price was 10 rupees to 25 rupees per kilo on the Friday.
If it will be seen by keeping these statistics of the government aside than the wholesale rate of the onion in the Keshopur Market was 22.5 rupees to 27.5 rupees per kilo.
Whereas on Saturday in the Shahdara vegetable market the wholesale rate of the onion remained 20 rupees to 22 rupees per kilo.
Although saying of the Chauhan is that reduction in the onion price will be continued due to weather recovery and tighten the grip over middleman with the increase in the supply of the onion , because beside Azaadpur market onion is reaching directly to sell in the Okhala , Gazipur , Keshopur and Nashipur etc. market.
Due to the heavy supply of the onion there is hope to become onion's price normal by next week.
Chauhan said that in the markets of the capital onion comes from Gujrat , Maharashtra , Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh.
In these states even the wholesale price of the onion has been reduced.
Reason of this is , farmers sending onion to the markets by taking out from the farm after weather became better.
The wholesale price of the onion has been registered 10 rupees to 16 rupees per kilo in the Rajasthan , 16 rupees to 20 rupees in Gujarat and 21 to 22 rupees per kilo in the Maharashtra.
Minister Chauhan said that to control the onion price quickly every possible effort is being taken and close supervision is being kept on the onion hoarding.
In the 12th five yearly scheme focus will be on the making agriculture a beneficiary deal.
New techniques to cultivate will be taught to the farmers.
Small farmers will be adhered to the agricultural scientific centers.
More machinery will be made available on the subsidy.
Plowing is decreasing continuously , that's why less land has been left to the farmers.
Due to the urban population every year thousands acre land reduces.
In the coming time there should not be the lack of food grains that's why preparation has been started from early.
The Indian Agriculture Research Institute will spend six thousand crore rupees on the 12th five yearly agriculture planning.
In the country there are already 637 agriculture research centers.
In this scheme , ambition to open 50 new agriculture research center has been kept.
In the big districts two agriculture research centers may be open.
Customer will get relief from the high price of the onion in the next month itself.
In the February last the supply of the new onion will be started.
After this only continuation of the down fall in the price will start.
Actually , the price of the onion is increasing so because due to drought in the southern and western states it has a bad impact over onion cultivation.
Topper in the onion cultivation with Maharashtra and Gujarat Karnataka also remained under the impact of the draught.
Due to this there is speculation of downfall in the yielding of the onion till 20 percent.
There is still some delay for new crop to reach in the market.
In the last week of the February new onions will start to reach in the market , from that there is chance to have condition better.
Till then costly onion will keep you crying.
Right now this is the condition that due to being onion costly in the domestic market its exportation is also being affected.
According to the recent anticipation of the National Council of Applied Economic Research in the present financial year 2012-13 the yielding of the onion will be less than 20 percent in against the 1.63 crore tons of the last year.
Taking advantage of this , stockpiles have become active.
Despite that due to the effect of the cold and fog also supply of the onion in the markets has become affected.
Without farmers the politics and economy of the country is not complete.
At the political level attempts to attract the farmers are done plenty , but the important question is even this that despite that why the condition of the farmer is not very good.
Why suicide news of the farmers are coming from the different corners of the country.
After sitting among the farmers itself their disappointment comes to know.
They , getting away from the whole calculation say just one thing that things are not remained like before.
Now seeds have to be bought and even a good amount of the fertilizer is used.
He takes the debt in the vicissitude to produce more money by making the land producing machine and take the decisions like ending the life when production is not according to expectation.
In an era , farmers used to have storage of seeds in the enough amount , from that he used to grow new crop from his farm's seed.
He used to use dung fertilizer instead of chemical fertilizer.
For this , animals used to be cared for.
But time changed and cultivation-farming changed also.
Instead of the dung fertilizer chemical fertilizer came and place of the local seeds were taken by the hybrid and new seeds.
Despite of changing all the methods the situation of the farmer did not change.
In temptation of the more yielding farmers are being deprived from their right to cultivate the seeds.
Earlier he used to save seed for the next time at the harvest time , but now he has to take debt to buy the new seed.
The new variety of the seed comes in one lakh , ten thousand rupees per kilo.
Instead of the chemical fertilizer farmers lessened the use of the dung and earthworm and more than daughter's marriage he is tormented by this worry that how many bags fertilizers will have to bring.
Now when across the country it is being debated over the seed bill , then it will have to take care that what farmers want.
The production must will increase from the new seed , but every year million tons of the wheat which is rotten , what will happen to that.
Due to lack of the cold storage farmers leave the potato crop just like that.
In such situation will he do more product n ?
In the Karnawal of the Merut there are farmers like Satish Kumar , who came on this stubbornity that we have to save ourself , then will have to move towards the old fashioned organic farming.
If farmers have their own seed and their own fertilizer , then there can not be any big dignity than this for farmers.
Why just Satish Kumar , Subodh Tyagi of the Bhumi village from same district has made a small attempt that through the organic farming they should save their land to be infertile.
There may be many reasons in favor to bring the seed bill , but from the mouth of the farmer just it comes out that now even seed did not remain ours.
The growing trend of the hybrid seeds and dependency over chemical fertilizer will end up his right to grow the seed from the farmer and will finish the fertility of the land completely.
Including Rakesh Tilket from Bhakiyu many farmer leaders have protested the seed bill.
This is possible that general farmer would not know the technical intricacies of this bill , but they want their right.
There are many farmers like Satish Kumar and Subodh Tyagi from the Meruth district , who are with the help of the organic farming doing the work to save the land like their mother.
It is also claimed that from this everyone will be benefitted , but if similar rut will be remained , then farmer who cultivate the seed will be the consumer who purchase the seed.
Due to chemical fertilizer land will be infertile.
Yet it has not been late.
We will have to bring the movements in favor of the organic farming which is running in different villages of the Meruth to the whole country.
The farmer will have to understand this that it is much better than to earn less benefit by much costing that he would keep less costing and would adopt more ways of the saving.
It will be the trend to earn profit by betting the life , then suicide of the farmers will not stop.
With the increase in the price of the onion Delhi politics has become warm.
BJP sitting in the opposition since last 14 years by losing the power due to onion has started notching.
Former central minister Vijay Goyal even sold cheap onion at Red fort on Friday to oppose.
Leader of the opposition in the Delhi parliament Prof. Vijay Kumar Malhotra has blamed the profiteers and the government for the swiftly rising prices of the onion.
He said that when in 1998 the price of the onion had increased then Congress leaders had roamed in every street putting onion garlands in their neck , but now have kept quiet.
Prof. Malhotra said that by making responsible center Sheela Dixhit can not escape from her responsibility.
At the same itself he demanded to stop the onion export immediately.
On the other side , in against of the rising prices of the onion on Friday in front of Red Fort former central minister of the BJP Vijay Goyal demonstrated by selling the onion at the cheap rate.
Goyal said that export of the onion should be banned.
He put the blame over chief minister that she did not do any remedy while having the time and now to save her image has written the letter to the Central Agriculture Ministry.
Must say that due to the attack of the mediators not just onion but the price of other vegetables are also touching the sky.
Officers of the Delhi Agriculture Board are telling that the market price will be reformed after coming of the new crop due to change in the weather.
In the capital since last few days rise-fall in the price of the onion is continued.
On Friday , in the wholesale , price of the onion remained stable between 10-25 rupees.
But in the retail onion is being sold at 30 to 40 rupees per kilo.
In the retail also the price of the green vegetables is quite high.
The tears of the costly onion will not stop currently.
The wait of being down of the onion price could be stretched longer because to control the price the government has denied to stop the export.
It is the argument of the Finance Ministry that due to the harvest failure farmers have a huge loss.
In this if its exportation will be banned , then farmers may have to suffer its consequences.
In such situation , general people will have to wait for the cheap onion to be stable of the global demands.
According to the Agriculture Ministry cultivation of the onion got affected due to delay in the monsoon in the kharif.
The size of the onion has remained small due to no rain in the time.
Hence the farmers who arranged the irrigation in time , their crop have become better.
Whereas crops of the farmers who were dependent on the rain has become weak.
Due to these reasons this , year fear of the reduction till twenty percent in the production of the onion against of the last year are being expressed.
Although in the productive sector production of the onion is being good.
But In the Product markets the rising price due to the purchasing of the exporter has impacted the price of the consumer markets.
Although in the markets of the North India due to the random supply of the onion from the Rajasthan price of the onion is coming down constantly.
Despite that yet the prices have not become normal.
The wholesale rate of the onion in the Delhi has remained 1000 to 2,500 rupees per quintal.
In a week prices have been reduced from 700 rupees per quintal.
Though the big reason behind the wild increase in the prices of the onion is having draught in many regions and due to that to have less production.
But for this to some extent blaze of the increased tension at the Pakistan border is also responsible.
Due to the tension started in the beginning of the January import of onion which is imported from the Pakistan via the way of the Wagha-Atari has got affected.
Simultaneously , this has also remained that how does complexities of the relationship with the neighboring countries impact the normal policy of the demand and supply.
Saying of the traders who are connected in the business at the border is that though due to tension business did not stop but has been affected.
According to the export-import trader Rajesh Sethiya , enough precaution is being taken after tension at the border.
Especially in the business of the fruit-vegetables there is fear of the decay even from the delay for a day , at the same there is a possibility of the hold of the payment.
At the India-Pak line of the control after the heinous murder of the two Indian soldiers trucks had to wait for many days to cross the border.
Statistics say that on 15th January where more than 300 trucks was standing at the Atari border of the Pakistan to come to India , there , on the next day 8 percent fall occurred in their number.
From the import prices remain in control : in the last one month after boom of the more than 50 percent in the wholesale prices now in domestic market also sign of some fall in the price of the onion is being seen.
Up-down of the prices is creating turbulence in the international market for the Indian onion.
From Sunday evening , raining in the central and eastern parts of the Uttar Pradesh could be proven the drop of the nectar for the crops of the Rabi.
The faces of the farmers have bloomed due to rain.
Crop of the wheat , potato and pulse have got benefited.
In the 24 hours rain of the average 12 centimeter is not being considered enough for the crops of the pulses.
Bloomed flowers of the mustard has suffered from the loss.
Saying of the experts is that the fall in the temprature will have direct impact over the wheat crop.
In the mango groves waiting for the blossoms rain will be beneficial.
Agriculture scientist S K Singh said that crop of the wheat has got panacea due to rain simultaneously crop of the weak peas due to frost will be also benefited.
The grain of the wheat will be big and now their cycle of the ripening will start soon.
There is impact over the mustard's flowers due to the fast wind which blew with the rain , where legume has come out there due to fall in the temperature its ripening process will be delayed.
In the central area of the UP and areas of the Awadh there might be an adverse impact of this over crop of the mustard.
Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav on Friday announced the State Advisory Price -LRB- SAP -RRB- for the current crushing season.
In the current crushing season sugar mills will pay the price for the precocious varieties of the sugar cane 290 rupees per quintal to farmers.
Price for the general variety 280 and improper variety 275 rupees per quintal has been fixed.
Government in comparison of the last year has increased 40 rupees in the new crushing season , but in the share of the farmers this increment will come just 37 rupees because in the transportation expenditure three rupees per quintal has been increased.
With farmers the government has tried to keep happy sugar mills as well.
Sugar mills now from the farmers' sugar cane price will do the reduction with the rate of 8.75 rupees per quintal instead of the 5.75 rupe.
It is the claim of the government that due to rise in the sugarcane price farmers will get 3300 crore rupees more in the sugar cane price in the 2012-13 in comparison of the crushing season 2011-12 and in the current crushing season farmers will be paid nearly 21,500 crore rupees.
In the current financial year company has expectation to obtain the turnover of nearly 700 crore rupees.
Deputy Executive Director of the Dalmiya Bharat Sugar Naresh Paliwal explained that we are bearing loss since 3-4 years.
Last year including power and distillery we were in the loss of the one and half to two crore rupees.
From this July to till now , in the last 3-4 months prices is being retained at the satisfactory level.
This is in the benevolence of the mills and farmers that the state government reinstate the Sugar Incentive Policy.
Recently the company has occupied a reasonable sugar factory in Kolhapur.
In future also we are serious about requisition of the better projects.
The total sugarcane crushing capacity of these mills is 22,500 TCD -LRB- Ton Sugar Cane Per Day -RRB-.
In UP sugar production on every quintal is 9 kilo , whereas in Maharashtra it is till 11-12 kilo.
In the current crushing season in announcing the State Advisory Price the Uttar Pradesh Government is sweating.
The current estimate of the sugar cane harvesting cost has increased the problem of the state government.
Even after the two meetings of the Sugarcane Pricing Committee SAP has not been announced and not even crushing could be started in the state's every mills.
On the basis of the last year if SAP would be increased 33.64 percent of the costing than sugarcane cost will be about 300 rupees per quintal.
According to the convenor of the Kissan Jagriti Manch Sudhir Pawar at whichever basis calculation would be done.
Even though the price will be more than 300 rupees.
He said that the costing has been increased by 22 percent.
At this level even if calculation will be done then too price will be 300 rupees.
If assume the basis to the proposed report of the Rangrajan Committee then too it is certain to increase the price of the sugarcane price.
Crushing has not been started even in the half of the state's total one hundred fifteen sugar mil.
In the mills in which production of the sugar has been started , in those , sugar is being supplied without any price.
Due to this sugarcane is not being paid.
The government is in the position of the pendency , from the similar situation states's sugarcane farmers are also passing through.
The central government to reduce the bill of the fertilizer subsidy could cut in the subsidy of the non-urea fertilizers.
The fertilizer division which is suffering from the lack of the cash to pay the subsidy is thinking to cut in the subsidy at the huge level which is given on the nitrogen , phosphate and potash.
This year there is a possibility of the subsidy bill to be more than 1 lakh rupees.
In such situation to reduce the subsidy bill on the huge level cutting could be done in the subsidy over non-urea fertilizers.
According to the officers on the 31st January meeting is going to be held on the issue of the cutting in the subsidy.
Dr. Yashwant Singh Parmar from Himalaya university Nauni now will prepare the hybrid multipurpose tree for the three states of the North India.
Fuel , fodder and timber wood will be gotten from the tree which will be prepared from this.
Central forest and Climate Ministry and Regional Center established in the Dr. YS Parmar has given the responsibility to prepare the multipurpose hybrid tree to the Basic Science Department of the University.
Work has started on this.
Scientists of the University have started to work on this.
The university will work on this project in the Punjab , Himachal Pradesh and Jammu-Kashmir.
Under this project scientist and field investigator will select the tree.
From the different trees of the agroclimate zone the best tree will be selected.
In this all the qualities branches of the plant , height , radius , volume will be considered.
After this hybrid variety of these plants will be made.
New varieties could be used by the forest department also.
To complete this project with the principal investigator two field investigator will also work.
After completion of the work it will be sent through the regional center of the ministry which is established in the Nauni University Campus to the Central Climate and Forest Ministry.
Under this scheme of the Central Forest and Climate Ministry , scientists of the university first will do the survey in these three states.
For the survey three states have been divided in the zone.
From there clusters of such trees will be made , which will fulfill the need of the fuel , timber wood and fodder.
By surveying such trees unique trees will be marked.
On this basis , a new variety of the hybrid multipurpose trees of the better quality will be created.
Who will be Benefitted : from the development of the new hybrid varieties of the multipurpose tree all of the three states will be benefited.
From just a plant , their needs will be fulfilled.
Simultaneously , officers of the forest department , scientists who are researching on the forests will be benefited from this.
From this , forests will also get encouragement.
Under this , hybrid varieties of the multipurpose tree will be developed for Punjab and Jammu-Kashmir.
Which will fulfill the need of the fuel , fodder and timber.
The university will complete this project in a year itself.
Pestered from the challenges of the climate changes the traditional varieties started to be remembered by the agriculture scientists.
Varieties which have been extinct will now reach directly to the farms from gene banks.
After America and China in India there is third largest gene bank of the crops.
At this matter deliberation will be done in the three days international conference of the agriculture scientists organized in Delhi from Tuesday.
Organizing secretory Dr. KC Bansal said about the conference that climate change is a serious challenge for the food security.
In this , gene bank of the crops will be very helpful.
In these gene banks genes of the traditional varieties of the different crops have been preserved.
Now the time has come that it should be popular by planting it directly to the land of the farmers.
In the international conference agriculture scientists of the 32 countries of the world will participate.
Coordinator of the conference Dr. P N Mathur said that almost in the every county of the world some farmers are such who cultivate the traditional crop for their usage.
NDB has announced to start dairy scheme which is running with the help of the world bank in the eight states including Uttar Pradesh.
Under this scheme , in all the states scientific methods will be used to increase the milk productivity by increasing the productivity of the milch animals.
Dr. Amrit Patel , director of the National Dairy Development Board -LRB- NDDB -RRB- has said while giving the detail of the progress of this scheme that from the 14 main milks-producing states 13 have been included in this.
The discussion is being done to Bihar.
In the first cycle the Project Steering Committee has approved 49 proposals in the eight states.
These states are - UP , Punjab , Tamilnadu , Gujarat , Madhya Pradesh , Odisha and Maharashtra.
Under the scheme proposals of the progeny testing of the cattle , pedigree selection , stretngtning of the semen stations , balanced ration program , fodder development has been approved.
In the next one month , there is also the possibility to include Andhra Pradesh , Rajasthan and West Bengal in this scheme.
The success of the crop yielding depend to some extent over proper use of the fertilizer.
To make the proper use of the fertilizer it is necessary to know that which elements -LRB- nutrients -RRB- are needed.
Nitrogen , Phosphorous and Potash are the main elements.
This is also mandatory to know that how is the fertility status of the land and there is lack of which elements.
It can be calculated by the examination of the land.
It is also necessary to know the acerbity of the land , quantity of the fossils , quantity of the salts so that by the use of the fertilizer in the proper form and amount its complete benefit could be taken.
To take the complete benefit of the fertilizer it is must to know this that the crop during its life span absorbs which element in which quantity.
To know this fact it is must to have a complete knowledge of the nutrient uptake pattern.
On the basis of the nutrient uptake pattern benefit may be taken using necessary elements at the right time.
Sometimes , it is necessary to give some fertilizer in many installments.
Even it may happen that instead of putting fertilizer on the land it should be sprayed over the leaves of the crop.
Examination of all these is necessary to do for the different soil , climate and crops.
Soil fertility is quite low in all the areas which grow the coarse grain.
Hence , possibly there is hope to become very beneficial the use of these fertilizers in these crops.
In these crops , growth has been found by using fertilizers in the advance varieties of the cluster bean and millet.
Whatever research has been done till now , that has been done by taking nitrogen and phosphorous together even that research is not enough.
Almost in the soil of the every area which grow cluster bean have a lack of the nitrogen.
After this phosphorous is a second important element.
Although from the comparative perspective it is needed in little less quantity even though this is equally essential as Nitrogen.
It has been known on the basis of the researches which have been done till now that by using the nitrogen manure intensity occurs in the plant's reproductive phase and process of the maturity.
Phosphorus also has a similar contribution in this direction.
But its consumption has been assumed more important in the initial life cycle of the plant.
On the consumption of the elements in the cluster bean , Raheja and Cottage -LRB- 1956 -RRB- did the research work in the California -LRB- America -RRB-.
They saw that consumption of the nitrogen and accumulation of the dry element is done almost in the similar form and similar cycle.
Difference is just that consumption of the nitrogen is in more quantity during the fourth and the seventh week of the sowing.
Hairan and friends did such experiment taking hybrid cluster bean ' R.S. 60 ' at Kansasa in America.
The maximum consumption of the nitrogen was happened about 19 days before the stage of the boot leaf.
The absorption of the potassium in comparison of the nitrogen is more in the initial stage of the cluster bean.
It has been seen that till the 43rd days of the sowing , cluster bean absorbs the about half of the total need of the potassium but half of the total amount of the nitrogen and phosphorous is absorbed in the period of the 60-70 days.
The absorption process of the Nitrogen remains continue during the whole lifespan of the cluster bean.
Almost before a week of the harvesting this process becomes slow.
In the beginning of the life span till 60-70 days leaves and stem absorb the maximum amount of the nitrogen and after this displacement of the absorbed nitrogen becomes towards the grains or becoming ready by ripening of the cluster bean.
Till this time almost 65-70 percent nitrogen has been transferred into the corn.
Like nitrogen itself , there is cycle of the process of the phosphorous absorption hence if fertilizer with phosphorous would be used in enough quantity then there is possibility to absorb it in more quantity.
The absorption process of the phosphorous in the initial stage of the cluster bean is slow in comparison to the nitrogen.
This is the very interesting thing that 70-85 percent part of the quantity of the absorbed phosphorous is transferred into corn of the cluster bean from the leaf and stem.
Thus in comparison to the nitrogen the process of the phosphorous transfer is more dense and important.
There is a possibility of the more reformation in the process of the phosphorous absorption by the availability of the nitrogen in the enough quantity.
The taken quantity of the phosphorous by the plant has been seen increasing to 40-50 percent.
Its meaning is this that to take the complete advantage of the nitrogen and phosphorous fertilizer it is essential that best quantity of both should be used.
It is called balanced fertilizer use.
The cycle of the potassium absorption has been found little different from the nitrogen and phosphorous.
The plant absorbs its maximum quantity in its initial stage itself.
The extreme of the potassium consumption has been seen almost 10 days before of the ripening of the cluster bean.
From the other parts of the plant very less potash is transferred into corn.
Like the other corps itself before 1950 in the cultivation of the cluster bean the use of the fertilizer was almost negligible.
In so far that in the developing countries even mostly fertilizers were not used.
After the development of the hybrid of the cluster bean and the varieties which give more yielding the requirement of the nitrogen was emphasized.
If it would be seen then generally a huge lack of this element is found in the Indian soil.
To say this that the whole area of the cluster bean itself is the necessitous from the perspective of the level of the soil-nitrogen , will not be hyperbole.
Simultaneously , it is also true that the reaction against nitrogen fertilizer -LRB- Impact over the yielding of the grain -RRB- is more than quantity and very beneficial.
The green color of the plant tells the utility of its use , from the far.
Here a fact also comes in front that from the local varieties also it is possible to take more yielding in comparison of the present yielding but if their cultivation would be done from the scientific methods.
But the cultivation of the hybrid varieties has been proved beneficial even without fertilizers or organic fertilizers.
In comparison of the Swarn all the other varieties have been found better from the perspective of the total yielding and per day productivity.
After finding the reaction equation the maximum quantity of the nitrogen for the any variety could be measured.
In fact , this is the boundary , by increasing the quantity of the element more from that the yielding of the grains reduces.
Hence on the basis of the yielding capacity of the two varieties and response to the nitrogen requirement , optimum quantity of the nitrogen could be measured.
Dr. S. P. Singh and Hari Singh -LRB- 1976 -RRB- in New Delhi have also done the different experiments on hybrid cluster bean and reformed varieties to test the best quantity of the nitrogen in the Kharif seasons of the 1972 and 1973.
Hybrid varieties had various reaction towards nitrogen.
Krishnamurti and other -LRB- 1975 -RRB- saw that by giving large quantities of the nitrogen there was a bad impact over the production of the hybrid cluster bean.
In the developed varieties from the perspective of the yielding CSH-6 was found almost equal to the CSH-1.
All hybrid varieties which give more yielding and yielding of the developed varieties was more in comparison to the local varieties even without the nitrogen fertilizer.
Yielding of the CSH-1 , 2 , 3 , 4 and 5 was found two and half and three times more than the local varieties.
It is must that if nitrogen fertilizer is not available or possible even though the cultivation of the hybrid cluster bean is beneficial.
These varieties have more power to absorb the both kinds of the nitrogen in the soil and which is given through the fertilizer and capacity to convert it into yielding of the grains in comparison of the local varieties.
Due to this reason , their production than local varieties was found to 53-81 percent more even without nitrogen fertilizer.
Mostly in the varieties only 49-55 percent of the given nitrogen is used.
But hybrid varieties use the 60-85 percent of the nitrogen.
How the quantity of the nitrogen increases likewise the percentage quantity of the consumed nitrogen decreases.
Due to use of the nitrogen the yielding of the grains was found every kilo more of hybrid and developed varieties in comparison of the local varieties.
The main reason for this more yielding of the hybrid varieties has been assumed their complete growth and reproduction in the presence of the nitrogen.
It has been known on the basis of the experiments that by giving the proper quantity of the nitrogen in the hybrid cluster bean the number of the plants which carry corn increase.
Like this nitrogen has a useful impact over the length and grains of the corn.
In every corn weight of the grain increases.
Despite that , there is also unexpected reformation in the length of the plant and storage of the dry element etc. growth processes.
Due to the impact of the all these yielding cases itself the growth in the yielding occurs.
The optimum quantity of the nitrogen -LRB- from the economic criteria -RRB- depends also on the variety of the soil and climate.
In the season of the Rabi the cluster bean is cultivated in the Southern region of the country.
For the cluster bean of this weather the only resource of the water-receipt is the preserved moisture in the soil.
Often in this season the yielding of the cluster bean grain per hectare and quantity of the response of the nitrogen is less in comparison of the Kharif.
To study the response of the nitrogen on the cluster bean of this weather research program has been organized.
Mahapatra and friends -LRB- 1973 -RRB- studied the results of the experiment of the almost 422 simple fertilizers and found that the quantity of the reaction toward nitrogen of the cluster bean of the Rabi season was quite low in comparison of the Kharif season.
Despite of being a long term variety also M-35-1 was found in these experiments which gives more yielding.
The reason for it is being this that in the year of the both experiments the enough amount of the moisture was present in the soil.
Generally , for the Rabi short termed -LRB- which gets ready in a short time by ripening -RRB- varieties has been found good because their life cycle complete from the moisture present in the soil.
CSH-1 is a such variety which adapts its life according to the moisture available in the soil , thus it has been also found best for the Rabi season.
Due to the less total period of the Rabi season -LRB- crop season -RRB- or we might say that due to the less life span of the proper varieties for this weather , their productivity is less in comparison of the Kharif varieties.
Due to this reason the required amount of the nitrogen is also used less.
To measure the optimum quantity of the cluster bean in Rabi it is must to do work constantly so that to make the coming developed varieties useful proper recommendation could be done time to time for the regions of the different soil and climate.
simultaneously there is need to research on the vegetative growth and cycle of the elements absorption during this season.
It will also have to examine properly in the regions of the Rabi sorghum that till the certain depth if a certain quantity of the moisture is present at the time of the sowing of the sorghum then how much amount of the nitrogen will be beneficial to use.
For the success of this work the mutual support of the agriculture and climate scholars is most needed then only it would be possible to establish the experimental harmony between moisture present in the soil -LRB- time and quantity etc. -RRB- and rain.
For the All Indian Dry Agriculture Scheme of the dryland farming under the Central Research Institute Hyderabad an important work is being done on these animals.
If land is of the heavy -LRB- clay -RRB- variety then the possibility of the loss of the used nitrogen reduces because its maximum quantity is absorbed by the soil which can be absorbed by the plants of the cluster bean as per their need.
Generally fertilizers are used in the soil or by spraying over the leaves.
In the method of putting fertilizer in the soil in comparison of the Utera method placement of the fertilizer has been found better because plants use fertilizer easily which has been used by this method.
From this method in the experiment the density of the elements in the soil certainly increases but it is not harmful so this method has been assumed the best method to use the fertilizer.
Under the All Indian Sorghum Reformation Scheme till two years at the 9 research centers which are established in the main regions which cultivate sorghum research was done.
In this study 100 kilogram nitrogen per hectare was given by the methods and on the time written below.
The whole nitrogen was given in the soil during sowing.
The half of the total amount of the nitrogen while sowing and the rest were given in the soil at the knee high stage of the sorghum.
The other installment after giving with the rows of the sorghum was mixed properly into the soil.
Half of the total amount of the nitrogen was used at the time of the sowing and rest half of the amount was given at the knee length stage by sprinkling over leaves.
It has been come to know from the results that it was best to put the complete amount of the nitrogen into the soil while sawing.
The use of the fertilizer in the soil was found more useful in comparison of the sprinkling over the leaves.
By using the nitrogen fertilizer late the reduction in the yielding of the sorghum was found.
At the Indore and Hyderabad centers it was more useful to put 100 kilogram nitrogen in two equal installments.
In the cultivation of the sorghum the total prescribed amount of the nitrogen should be used while sowing itself.
At the Surat and Bharatpur Centers it has been found beneficial to use nitrogen in two installments in comparison to the single installment.
At these two places soil is of the bit light variety , by using the amount of the nitrogen all at once due to less nitrogen absorption capacity of the soil perhaps suffered the loss.
Thus plants could not be benefited with this and due to lack of the nitrogen the yielding capacity of the sorghum was fallen.
In such soils an important quantity of the nitrogen gets lost and according to the requirement of the plants especially during the mid and last of the life the requirement of the nitrogen does not get fulfilled.
Eventually it has a bad impact over the vegetative growth and other developmental production processes.
Hence it will be useful to use the nitrogen in installments in the light soil for the successful cultivation of the sorghum.
Dryland sorghum may have to face the lack of the moisture in the soil in any period of its life cycle.
In such unstable situation if the whole amount of the nitrogen would be given at the time of sowing then there is a possibility of the heavy loss.
Hence it has been anticipated proper that the half of the proposed amount of the nitrogen should be given at the time of the sowing and half of the rest should bring in use when enough moisture would be in the soil otherwise it will be proper to give half amount of the total amount.
Actually method of the sprinkling of the nitrogen over the leaves was not found successful in most of the experiments , there may be many reasons for this.
In the soils , which have any particular problem as such lack of the micro nutrient like zinc then to fulfill that this method has been found successful.
Its use may be brought in the work to mid season improvement.
Such as if the lack of any nutrient has been felt during the crop growth then this method may be adopted because elements given by this method become available to the plants earlier than the elements given in the soil.
If soil have the lack of the moisture then through the spraying method the quantity of the few elements could be used.
In the last it is there that spray and use of the elements in the soil have to do in such methods that in both of the conditions the availability of the elements would be at the right time of the requirement of the plants.
In the sorghum like nitrogen itself phosphorous is also an important and essential nutrient.
In the plant physiology it has a huge importance.
This effort remains active particularly in the division.
From this the growth of the roots becomes good , grain becomes big and timing of the ripening reduces.
In the plants , power to face the disease and other enemies increases.
Development in the yielding of the grain and reformation in the nutrients is done also through phosphorus.
It will be best that use of the phosphorous should be on the basis of the soil degradation.
In fact , after the development of the hybrid varieties that is after 1975 a special attention was given towards this.
It came to know through the results of these experiments that to take the good yielding of the hybrid sorghum generally the use of the 50 kilograms phosphorus per hectare was found best on the economical perspective.
The amount of the phosphorous should be decided on the basis of the soil examination.
Generally this quantity of the phosphorous is used at the time of the sowing of the sorghum.
Generally it can be given 4-5 cm below from the seed through stock or dust in the traditional Plough.
At the time of using phosphorous in the sorghum any research was not done yet.
It came to know from the researches done on the other crops that it will be best to use the total amount of the phosphorous at the time of the sowing.
The reason for it is this that phosphorous is very supportive in the development of the roots of the plant and plant starts to develop properly in its initial life period.
It has a good impact over the yielding capacity of the plant.
In the sorghum it is essential to have a good growth of the roots in the beginning so that plant can fulfill its requirement of the water properly even in the dry circumstances.
From the perspective of to increase this capacity of the plant Dr. B. B. Turkhere gave phosphorous in the CSH-1 at different times.
The total amount of the phosphorous was given at the depth of about 4-5 cm.
It was found from the results that it did not have any particular effect of the timing of giving phosphorous over the yielding of the sorghum hence to give all the amount at a time was anticipated useful practically.
Placement of the phosphorous and to use through the spraying over the leaves is more beneficial in comparison of the Utera method.
Perhaps reason of it is this that through these methods possibility of absorption of the phosphorus from the soil reduces because it comes in contact with the very little part of the soil.
Thus , phosphorous is not absorbed by the soil in the form which could not be used.
If its phosphorous level of the soil would be enough high then method of the Utera may be adopted.
No any bad impact was found on the germination percentage and motion by sowing phosphorus fertilizer mixing with the seed.
Plants were seen healthy since the beginning.
Phosphorus fertilizers are available in many forms , in those many are made in the factory.
To reform the agricultural land and agricultural techniques like leveling the land , to make barren and infertile land fertile , to dig the well , to make the ridge , irrigation , creation of the resources and and give them strong form.
To arrange the long term loan to purchase the agriculture machine-equipment.
To make the farm house , dam , drain , godown , cattle shed.
Land development banks are expanding the loan works for development of the agriculture assisting works like dairy , poultry , to cultivate the fruit nursery , bi0-gas plant , wind mill.
To work like as a form of the link between long term banking and national agriculture and village development bank NABARD and the government.
Some are either found in natural form like rock phosphate or are in iron factories in the form of extra -LRB- by product -RRB- like basic slag.
The percentage amount of the solubility in water of these different forms is different , so the amount of these available to the plant is also different.
In this way , the effect of phosphorus fertilizer is different on the yield of jowar.
In comparison to the new phosphorus fertilizers , probably super phosphate is considered as the base yardstick.
Dr. Gobil researched and saw that effect of the mixture of triple phosphate and rock phosphate and super phosphate and dicalcium phosphate is found to be same from the point of view of yield of jowar.
It is necessary to have more than 75 percent of water solubility in the mixture of super phosphate and rock phosphate.
As far as possible , for meeting the demand of phosphorus , triple super phosphate only should be used in farming of jowar.
Granular composite fertilizer like urea , ammonium phosphate in the source form of phosphorus , will prove superior to super phosphate.
Ammonium poly phosphate , which is a new fertilizer with nitrogen phosphorus , is also found to be good.
70 percent part of the total potassium stays only in the stover -LRB- stover -RRB- of jowar and in our country every year cutting stover of jowar is used as fodder.
In this way , on consuming of potassium or the accumulated deposit of potash in the land is reducing day by day.
There is a possibility of the speed of this reduction to increase with the increase in high yielding type and hybrid type of area.
It is possible that in the near future , using of potassium fertilizers will become necessary like nitrogen and phosphorus for taking good yield.
Mahapatra et al -LRB- 1973 -RRB- in the experiments done on farms of the farmers found some increase in the yield of jowar on giving potash.
Use of micro nutritive elements : In these nutritive elements iron and zinc are specially important in the farming of jowar.
Probably , absence of both these micro elements is found in the areas growing jowar.
Deficiency of iron is frequently seen in land with limestone -LRB- calcareous soil -RRB-.
Iron has special importance in the farming of jowar.
In California state of America , in the land deficient with iron , on farming jowar , only 250 kilograms of yield of grains could be got per hector.
But making a 3 percent solution of sulphate and ferrous sulphate with more powerful iron element , on spraying twice on the leaves , the yield increased to 3750 kilograms per hector meaning an increase of 1500 percent happened.
Giving sulphate of iron successfully in a limestone soil is not possible.
So it's spraying on the leaves is only considered correct.
It is possible that with the decrease in the amount of limestone , it can be put in the soil as per the local tradition.
From these experiments one more important mystery was unfolded that in types of jowar there is a large difference in the response towards iron.
In our country , the response of hybrid jowar is measured towards iron element and zinc.
In some limestone soils deficiency of these nutritive elements is seen and in some not.
This mystery should be understood through research.
On the basis of this result , the problem of the plants of jowar becoming yellow due to lack of iron can be better understood.
The type of jowar giving promisingly more yield which is used in the work of improvement , growing that on limestone soil , has be to picked so that the type which can tolerate the deficiency of this element can be developed.
The classification of the soil of all the areas of the country has been done based on the micro nutritive elements.
By studying it , the deficiency of the nutritive elements in different parts can be known to a great extent.
The jowar farming areas in which it is told there is deficiency of zinc and iron elements , it can be beneficial to work on this aspect in those areas.
In the main areas of bajra farming most number of farmers is under the poverty line , so use of costly products like compost or fertilizer is beyond their financial reach.
Other than this , the level of inherent capacity of producing of available local types is low and their demand of nutritive elements can be partially fulfilled either by leaving the land uncropped or farming of pulses.
At the Kovilpatti center in Tamil Nadu , the yield of bajra doubled with the use of nitrogen fertilizer.
In the absorption method of the nutritive elements and collection of dry material is almost like the method of jowar.
There is difference only in the method of absorbing potash because bajra needs it more as compared to jowar.
The percentage amount of nitrogen in the leaves keeps increasing till just before the flower comes.
This can be said that from the beginning stage to the flowering stage the process of absorbing nitrogen keeps on increasing continuously but the total amount of nitrogen in the foliage increases similarly in both till the lactiferous stage.
After this stage , any change was not seen in the amount of nitrogen also.
It has to be understood by this that the entire requirement of nitrogen of the growing ear and corn is fulfilled only by the stored nitrogen in the initial stages.
The method of percentage amount of absorbing nitrogen in the roots is same as the stem.
Most amount of nitrogen is in the grain of bajra at the time of harvesting.
The amount of nitrogen found in the life time of a plant of bajra has direct relation with the yield of the grain.
Bajra absorbs nitrogen in the form of nitrate more fast instead of in the form of ammonium.
For it's most desired growth , a ratio of 2:1 between nitrate and ammonium is found to be best.
But if the total amount of phosphorus is seen then exactly opposite situation of this is found.
In the stem , the percentage amount of phosphorus is maximum before the flowering stage.
The phosphorus requirement of the entire plant of bajra is from the lactiferous stage till middle stage.
The amount of phosphorus in the leaves , stem , root and grain of bajra slowly goes on decreasing with the growing up from the initial seedling stage.
The speed of this decrease is found to be least in the harvesting stage.
Maximum amount of potassium is found in the stem of the plant of bajra.
The reducing amount of potassium is found serially in the leaves , roots , corn -LRB- in which grains have not formed -RRB- and grains.
The plant of bajra in most of it's growing period and in the interval of half-ripe stage , absorbs potassium with continuous speed , meaning no rise-fall has been seen.
In the leaves , in the amount of calcium , till before the flowering stage and in the amount after that no describable change happens.
In the stem , most amount of calcium is found in the stage before the flowering process and after that , till harvesting , it goes on reducing continuously.
In the root , maximum amount of potassium is in the growing period and in the grain in the yield stage.
Most percentage amount of magnesium is accounted in the leaves and grain-less corn at the time of harvesting , in the stem before the flower comes and in the root in the stage of maximum plant growth.
It is natural for the required amount of nitrogen also to be different because the inherent fertility strength of the soil is different.
The experiments that G. C. Munda -LRB- 1974 -RRB- did in the Indian Agricultural Research Institute , New Delhi , to understand the most desired amount of nitrogen for hybrid bajra in the watered stage , on the basis of that , it was found that the effect of amount of nitrogen does not fall on green leaf disease.
But the percentage amount of kandua and ergot afflicted plants increased with the increase in the amount of nitrogen used.
The use of nitrogen fertilizer is useful in local varieties.
The level of yield of these varieties is continuous as compared to hybrid varieties and the amount of response is less.
In hybrid varieties , on infliction of terrible diseases like green leaf -LRB- romil phaphundi -RRB- and chempa -LRB- ergot -RRB- , their yield is more than local varieties.
But with passage of time , intensity of these diseases can take humongous form like has happened in many places also.
So it is necessary to know more elaborately the mutual relation between local varieties and nitrogen.
Keeping in mind soil type , growth rate , absorption etc. it can be best to make a decision on the time of installment of use of nitrogen fertilizer.
To take good yield of bajra , making use of phosphorus is also mandatory , it's necessity was experienced in 1923 only.
Use of phosphorus along with nitrogen will be very beneficial.
Presence or absence of positive response towards phosphorus is dependent on the inherent fertility strength inside the soil.
This strength is different based on the situation and land type.
So somewhere yield increases due to it's use and somewhere does not.
Other than this , this also is a proved truth that because the level of inherent production capacity of local varieties is low also , probably beneficial effect of phosphorus can not be found.
The total amount of phosphorus is to be given at the time of sowing only.
Using it tying a wooden round with an indigenous plough is found to be best.
In this pit only the seed can be sowed by the kera process.
To take full advantage of the available nitrogen , on having less potash in the soil , the use of this is necessary.
On arrival of drought situation , due to potash , amount of nitrate increases.
Gopalkrishna -LRB- 1960 -RRB- has studied the effect of copper -LRB- copper -RRB- taking the local varieties of bajra.
In this experiment , he saw that , with the use of copper there was increase in the rate of growth till the vegetative stage and after this till the flower came the rate of growth reduced.
After this , again increase was found in this.
Collection of dry ingredients from seedling stage till vegetative stage was found to be more.
Using copper in the amount of 20 and 50 P.P.M was more beneficial.
Conclusion is that , on using in amount of 20 P. P. M. it was seen possible for produce to increase.
Under the All India Large Grain Improvement Project also research was done taking zinc.
This was researched because it was found on the Hisar center that , by using zinc the green leaf disease wa less in hybrid bajra.
In no center , there was no special effect on the yield of hybrid bajra and by it's use there was no effect even on the severity of green leaf disease.
That experiment was successful to a large extent in showing the importance of nutritive elements for taking good yield of madua.
From experiments done in Andra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu also it was known that full benefit of the inherent production capacity of madua can be taken only by using nitrogen etc..
By use of phosphorus in enough quantity there is less outbreak of blast disease on madua.
By use of chemical fertilizers the yield of madua was found to be more in comparison to bio fertilizers.
Autumn crop from 1960 to 1962 research work was done on places of dry farming.
Till sometime , by giving phosphorus in the form of chemical fertilizer , due to increase in the it's level in the soil , only fertilizer with nitrogen was needed to be given.
The author's own opinion is that on using bio fertilizers continuously , it is natural for qualities of soil to improve and also improvement happens in the health of soil.
The ability to retain water in the soil and composition of the structure of soil particles etc. is included in this improvement.
These qualities have lot of importance in the areas of dry farming.
So if available the use of bio fertilizers should be definitely done.
Yes , this is for sure that , bio fertilizers can be used mixing with compost or cow dung.
Such a compost is called super compost.
It is found in experiments that by use of this compost , increase has been found in the percentage amount of nitrogen and phosphorus in the grains of madua.
Probably , by giving nitrogen at the time of sowing or in two or three installments , there was no special effect on the yield of madua.
Yes , this was definitely found that , on giving half amount of nitrogen at the time of sowing and remaining half 42 days after sowing , there was little increase in the yield of grains.
On giving nitrogen through soil and leaves , it was found that giving it's entire amount in soil only is best.
In areas with dry farming if there is absence of moisture in the soil then by spraying other variety of nitrogen on the leaves there is a possibility of increase in the yield.
It is found best to use phosphorus fertilizers by the localization process in comparison to utera process.
It is found beneficial to use these fertilizers at the depth of 7-15 c. m..
By doing this , the root of madua grows deep towards the nutritive elements consequently is capable of using the moisture in the lower levels of the soil.
On giving super phosphate mixing with cow dung at the time of sowing or one month before sowing by localization process , good yield of madua is obtained.
On localizing cow dung fertilizer , improvement is seen in the accumulation and preservation of ground water in the layers of madua.
Due to this reason , probably , it does not have to face absence of moisture and the possibility of the crop getting destroyed , on rains being less than normal , is reduced.
Nitrogen fertilizer can be given by uteran or localization process also.
If possible then localization process should be adopted because in this process lot of improvement is seen in the usefulness of nitrogen.
But it should be kept in mind that nitrogen fertilizer and the seeds of madua should not come in direct contact else there is a possibility of bad effect on germination.
In Karnataka to get good yield of madua , use of nitrogen and as required phosphorus and potash in very essential.
If the amount of salts in the soil is upto 400 P.P.M then bad effect does not fall on germination.
When the density of salts becomes more than this then it badly affects germination.
Plants become weak from the beginning only.
Going ahead , the effect of this weakness falls on their producing capacity.
The plants whose growth is good from the beginning , their producing capacity is also more.
So it is necessary for plants to get good environment for growth in the beginning.
The capacity of phosphorus containing fertilizers has a deep effect on the the type of soil.
The usefulness of phosphorus was found to be of high level in red soil in comparison to laterite and black soil.
In this soil , maximum part of used phosphorus was absorbed by the grains and chaff of madua but on laterite and black soil plants absorb this in very less amounts.
Ammonium phosphate in black soil and super phosphate in laterite soil is found to be best.
Response towards phosphorus could be seen only in the presence of nitrogen.
In some experiments , use of potash was found to be helpful in increasing yield with both nitrogen and phosphorus.
Probably , in madua of punasa season , only sheep are kept in the farm full night -LRB- sheep panning -RRB- and their excreta-urine are considered one and only means of giving nutritive elements to the soil.
Use of cow dung fertilizer is very less.
Fertilizer is used less in dry farming areas and more in watered areas because the level of yield is higher in these areas.
In remaining millets viz, proso millet , barnyard millet , little millet use of fertilizers is not done much.
In Tamil Nadu , along with chaina , use of fertilizer is found to be beneficial in kutaki also.
In this way , in one long term experiment of fertilizer use -LRB- 1930-40 -RRB- it was found that with continuous use of cow dung fertilizer an increase of 23 percent was found in the yield of kutaki.
Black mint meaning mentha piperita type vulgaris sol is a hard , sixty to ninety c. m. long , probably made of red color stem and dark green color leaves.
From this type a very volatile oil is extracted.
White mint mentha piperita type auphysinal is a small plant of 30 to 60 c. m. length.
It is less hard and it's color is light.
From this variety commercial peppermint oil is obtained.
The oil veins are mostly on the lower side of the leaves and they come on stems and flower bunches too.
White mint is 30 to 60 c. m. long , strong , including stem and leaves.
The natural place of the plant is moderate country but it can also grown on commercial level in the climate of Jammu and Kashmir and if means of irrigation are available then it can be sowed in northern India also.
As much good yield is obtained in the Kashmir valley that much is not obtained in these areas.
In May and June after the new first crop , the nature of color of the plant becomes active.
And after the third crop the length of the crop becomes short.
This is a upright plant.
Deep moldy , sandy soil is most useful for mint so that the entry of the roots can happen easily.
Soil should not be light , dull and alkaline.
Highest P. H. value should be upto 4 to 7.5.
Water clearance should be good and it should be kept in mind that soil doesn't dry up.
Sticky soil is not good for it's farming.
Before sowing , fertilizers like super phosphate and potash should be mixed in the soil.
Entire farm should be split into small beds so that there is ease in watering and water clearance.
The best time for replanting is from the third week of December to mid of February.
If use of sapling has to be done for replanting then wait should be done for some warm weather to come.
By replanting of sapling in place of bhustaariyan there is a lot of benefit.
Replanting should not be done in cold season.
In the season of growing this plant needs enough water.
Two or three days after every cutting , watering should be done.
By this protection against termite happens.
In the scorching heat of April and June minimum one time a week watering should be done.
By fertilizer the amount of oil increases.
Along with fertilizer , use of cow dung fertilizer is also beneficial.
Lot of compost fertilizer should be put so that possibility of growing of weeds does not remain.
Green fertilizer mainly fertilizer of sanai and jowar stocks is beneficial for good yield.
Spraying of urea after every harvest is beneficial.
Smelling oil should be kept free from other smells.
For this it is essential that only distillation of mint is done.
By spraying of solution of seenwar , weeds can be stopped from growing.
For good yield and getting methol , it is very good to do cutting at the time of flowering.
When leaves start falling and flowering starts stopping then amount of oil reduces.
By cutting late , amount of menthol and sweetness of the smell reduces.
Generally , in northern India , flowers do not come , so when the lower leaves of the crop start falling then it is okay to do harvesting.
First harvest in May , second in July and third in October.
In the Tarai area of Uttar Pradesh , two times harvest is okay.
Oil obtained from early and unripe crop is of bad quality and it's price obtained in the market is less.
Peppermint growers mostly dry the herb properly , by this the weight is reduced and there is ease in keeping-lifting.
Distillation from dry herbs happens easily , along with it less fuel and volatility is needed.
As far as the question of fragrance and quality of oil is concerned , oil obtained from fresh plants is of good quality in comparison to dry leaves.
In the oil obtained from fresh leaves a special type of sweet aroma comes.
According to it , the efficacy of the oil obtained from fresh plants is more.
Ocimum -LRB- basil -RRB- sub-variety comes under the Labiatae family.
Their 50-60 sub-varieties are found which are found in the tropical and warm moderate climates of the earth.
9 varieties of this are found in India , of which some are foreign.
From many varieties of Ocimum volatile oil is obtained which is used in the medical and perfume industry.
Camphor is obtained in large quantities from some varieties.
These are very useful in the perfume industry.
Basil oil if obtained from Ocimum Bacilicum Linn.
O. Gratissimum Linn is called Ram tulasi.
Fragrant oil is obtained from this plant.
Ocimum is mostly grows in the form of annual plant.
This can be sowed from mid February till end of September.
Most manures and fertilizers are not needed for Ocimum.
By sowing the seed directly in the farm the plants grow well.
In this way sowing also becomes cheap.
After sowing the seeds , the seeds should be covered with mud by moving a light trowel.
Watering of the farm should be done 24 hours after sowing.
In this way the seeds come out in 10-15 days.
The plants start flowering in April.
At this time in April first harvesting should be done.
The plant of Ocimum Americanum is a 30-60 c. m. height upright , sweet smelling romil herb which is found abundantly almost all over India near the fields and in barren lands.
This plant is sometimes found in gardens or can be easily sowed with seeds.
Volatile oil of Americanum is brought to use in soaps and cosmetics like a perfume.
On experimental basis , camphor producing variety is sowed in Comoros Islands -LRB- Indian Ocean -RRB- , Kenya , Russia , United Kingdom , America and West Germany and from it 20 to 100 K. G. camphor per hector was obtained.
The leaves of this plant are shleshmi.
Curry of this plant is made.
It's fragrant leaves are used for dressing curries , soups and salads.
It's seeds mixing with other grains were used for eating in absence of food.
The decoction of this plant are used for cough and it's leaves for nevish.
In tooth ache it's gargles are also done.
The juice of leaves is given to children in cold , cough and its pulp is applied on parasitic skin diseases.
Fresh leaves are approved medicine in Homeopathy.
Ocimum Bacilicum Linn, this plant is commonly called sweet basil or European basil also.
This is almost 30-90 c. m. upright tall herb whose native place is Middle Asia and North-West India.
This is sowed in most places in India.
This plant is very changeable and it's botanical naming is very difficult.
Often one variety is given many names.
Fragrant oil is obtained from the leaves and flower vrunt.
This plant has an important place in the aromas , perfumes and fragrant liquids industry.
This is used widely in aromatic sweets , eatables , pickle-chutney , tooth pastes etc..
Medicinal qualities are also found in this plant.
Warm juice of the leaves of this plant mixing in honey is given for treatment of swelling of throat.
Oil of basil -LRB- European variety -RRB- is widely used for sweets , cooked foods , cough , chutney's and some yogic fragrances , specially for giving strength and balance to jasmine mixtures.
Reunion oil also comes in such tasks.
Basil oil has insect-repelling and antifungal qualities.
It is dangerous for house flies and mosquitoes.
This plant is used in Homeopathy.
It's roots , bark and leaves give cynogen.
Leaves have alcoholic extracting and fruits have anti-bacterial capacity.
The seeds of this plant are colorless and it's taste oily , light blue.
When they are soaked in water , then a mucus comes out of it which is translucent and almost tasteless.
By water-decomposition of this mucus -LRB- 9.3 per -RRB- uronic acid , glucose , lylos and rhamnosa is obtained.
In northern India and in the lowlands of Nainital , it's farming is done in the form of autumn crop only.
Where severe winter and sometimes fog occurs.
In Assam and south India it's farming is done throughout the year.
Heavy irrigation is not needed for it's crop.
On the other hand , heavy and continuous rain badly affects it's crop.
Even then if it's crop stabilizes before the beginning of the rainy season then it can tolerate heavy rain also.
For it's farming fertile , well dried , sticky or light sticky soil of best quality is needed.
Light or sandy soil is not right for it.
Ocimum Gratissimum -LRB- Ram tulasi -RRB- is a plant almost 1-2.5 meter tall , with many branches , long living which is found in almost entire India and Lanka.
O. Gratissimum is more sharp smelling compared to other varieties of this family.
It is mosquito-repelling and it is advised to sow this for keeping this insect under control.
The anti-bacterial action of the oil of O. Gratissimum is clear and toxicity and anxiety is lessened.
This oil is used for soothing ear ache , tooth pain , stomach ache of children.
The native place of Ocimum Kilimandscharicum is Kerala and East Africa.
This was brought in India and it's farming is being done.
This can be grown in irrigated and in-irrigated conditions in every kind of soil.
Camphor can be obtained from this plant , so in the days of second world war efforts were made to take camphor from it in Sudan and some other countries.
This does not grow well in the flat lands of West Bengal but it flourishes very well in the lower hills of Darjeeling , now it is successfully grown in Rogo mountains and Sukana -LRB- Kalimpong Forest Division. -RRB-.
Camphor Basil plant grows on flat lands and hills up to the height of 900 meters.
Once after it stabilizes for many years , leaves can be taken from it.
If moisture is sufficient then this plant can tolerate lot of heat.
It can not tolerate temperature less than almost -2 degrees.
When the plant becomes almost 60 c. m. tall , starts flowering and lower leaves start becoming yellow , then leaves are taken.
In cold places where the plant is sowed in the form of annual , leaves are gotten twice.
When leaves on withering become dry then beating them they are separated and stored in bags or used.
Without destroying camphor , the leaves are kept till almost one year.
3.5 percent oil is obtained from dry leaves.
Maximum amount of camphor and oil is in the leaves and after that in flowers , very little amount is obtained from the stem.
Compared to leaves of plants grown from seeds , more amount of oil is obtained from the leaves of grafted plants.
By drying the leaves first , there is increase in the availability of oil.
More amount of oil is obtained in the dry months.
Oil extracted from camphor basil is light yellow colored and camphor of sharp aroma.
For the use in colors , this oil is said to be best than oil of linseed.
The surface obtained from this is shiny and hard.
O. Kilimandscharicum is the primary source of camphor but it's use in the form of economy is considered not possible , as long as commercial outlet of the oil got in the form of by-product is not found.
Oil from which partially camphor is removed has insect-repelling qualities.
It's effect is one third compared to pyrethrum extraction.
Basil is commonly sowed in gardens.
Hindus consider it holy and it is often grown in courtyards and temples.
It's two varieties O. Sanctum green variety -LRB- Shri Tulasi -RRB- is most common.
Leaves of other variety -LRB- black basil -RRB- are violet.
It is sowed by seeds.
The smell of this plant is fragrant and lovely and smell of clove is clearly experienced in this.
It is mentionable that the oil extracted from the plant from Phillipines has a sweet smell similar to saunf.
Leaves are used in salad and other foods like spice.
Medicinal qualities in it are also told.
Other than volatile oil , presence of alkalides , glycoside saponins and tannins in this plant are also mentioned.
In the juice of it's leaves swedkari , colic fever-reducing and appetite-increasing qualities are there.
Basil is used in cold and bronchial swelling and applied on ringworm and skin diseases.
In ear ache it's juice is dropped into the ear.
Farm is that area or piece of land which is brought to use in producing crop or cattle rearing , on which there is lordship of one farmer or many farmers together and whose boundary is fixed.
Different specialists have defined the word farm in different words.
Management means doing some work or the art of managing.
The need for management is similar in all industries.
For farm products there is necessity of land , labor , capital and managers.
The first three agents of production are tangible agents and fourth agent , produce of management , non-tangible.
Despite of abundance of tangible agents on the farm , in absence of managing agent , less produce is obtained.
The amount of produce obtained from a farm on different farms is found to be different because of difference in managing-capacity inspite of other tools of production being same.
The art of managing capacity found in a manager is a God-given gift.
By training this capacity in a manager can be increased.
The main goal of the farm-manager is help get the farmer maximum net profit from the various enterprises done on the farm.
The aim of the farmer is to get maximum profit from all enterprises undertaken on the farm , not getting maximum profit from any one enterprise undertaken on the farm , because farm is the group form of different enterprises.
Although getting maximum profit being the important goal of the farmer , it is not the ultimate goal also.
The ultimate aim of the farmer is increase in the standard of living and giving maximum happiness to members of the family.
Improvement in standard of living and happiness to members can only be obtained on getting maximum profit from the farm.
For successful handling of the farm , it is necessary for the manager to have full knowledge of farm managing.
By successful handling of farm means , getting maximum happiness to members of the family from the income earned from the farm.
Farmers take the decision on areas for different enterprises based on the prevailing prices , but the income obtained from the produce depends on the prevailing prices at the time of harvesting.
There is always an uncertainty of the prices got at the time of harvesting the crop.
So doing correct estimate of production , productivity and prices is necessary.
Farm-management knowledge is helpful in it's estimate.
Implementing the prepared farm-plan on the farm - the amount of profit acquired in the farm-plan is dependent on the implementation on farm-plan.
Farm-management knowledge is helpful in implementing the farm-plan.
So , the profit incurring from implementing the farm-plan also has to be bore by the farm-manager.
For success of farming-occupation , it is necessary for the farm-manager to have knowledge of popular ways of growing different crops in the area.
In different areas , due to difference in land , climate , economic and social factors , lot of difference is found in the ways and means of growing crops.
Without the knowledge of popular ways of farming in the area , farmers can not be successful in the profession.
Farmers-managers can obtain hands-on knowledge of popular farming techniques and procedures by seeing the farms of innovative farmers in the area.
So first it is necessary for farmers-managers to get hands-on knowledge of various crops grown in the area for the success of the farming-business.
Knowledge of professional principles of the manager.
In ancient times , farmers did not feel the need for professional principles of management , because farmers did not take farming in the form of profession but took it in the form of means of livelihood , because of which they did not give much attention to the profit earned form the occupation.
In present farmers take farming in the form of profession.
Buy most amount of production-equipment for production from the market.
So in present for maximum profit from farming occupation , it is necessary for the farmers to have knowledge of the professional principles of farm-management.
The knowledge of professional principles helps the farmer to take the following decisions on the farm , by which there is increase in the profit acquired.
In the amount needed by the farmers , there is an exceptional lack of capital.
For farming , a farmer borrows capital in the form of loan from various sources.
There is a lot of difference in the terms of accepting loan , interest-rates etc. in each loan-giving organization.
So farmers have to choose the right loan-giving organization for getting loan on low interest rates and easy installments.
Knowledge of farm-management principles helps farmers to take decisions relating to doing various tasks of farming on the farm.
For example , how much area should be taken under different crops on the fa ?
In what proportion should different crops be taken on the fa ?
What activities or crops should be chosen on the fa ?
In what amount should fertilizers be put in different fields per hector area.
In what proportion should the various equipments of production be replaced etc.
Total output : The amount of produce which is obtained from using different amounts of the production equipments is called total output.
The amount of produce obtained from the use of different amounts of production equipments is also different.
Average output : Average output means the average productivity of the production equipments.
Average output , total output and applied is in proportion to the amount of production equipments.
The result obtained by dividing the total amount of output obtained from the use of different amounts of production equipments by the amount of production equipment is called average output.
For example , if in one unit of land , by using 20 kilogram of nitrogen fertilizer , 8 quintal of total output is obtained then from per kilogram of nitrogen fertilizer , average output -LRB- 8  20 -RRB- = 0.40 quintal is obtained.
With increase in the amount of margin output there is an increase in the average output.
In the case of the margin output curve -LRB- from A to G point -RRB- being above the average output curve , the average output curve keeps growing upwards.
Meaning , till the margin output is more than the average output , average output keeps increasing.
On margin output being less than average output or margin output curve coming lower than average output curve -LRB- G to I and beyond -RRB- average output becomes less.
Meaning , till the amount of margin output is less than average output , average output keeps reducing.
Area 1 : the first area of output function is from starting point of production till that point where margin output curve cuts the average output curve -LRB- from A to H till use level of production equipment or 6 unit.
In this area there is constant increase in the amount of average output.
Margin output curve is above average output curve.
The place where margin output is equal to amount of average output , that point is the last point of this area.
This area of production-function is called irrational area , because in this area on doing production , on increasing the amount of production equipment , the amount of obtained profit also keeps increasing.
The aim of the farmer in doing production is not only to earn profit but to earn maximum amount of profit.
In this area there is a constant increase in the amount of average output and margin output due to which each additional unit of production equipment gives more profit than the earlier.
So to take decision to do production in this area is not correct.
For production , farmers have fixed equipments land , animals , etc. and variable equipments labor , capital , seeds , compost , fertilizer , insect-repelling medicines , irrigation , fodder , grains , etc..
The principle of diminishing results mainly is exhibited at that time when the farmer wants to obtain maximum profit from one unit of land or one animal.
In other words , the increase in production in different units of variable equipments that happens at decreasing rate.
This is called the principle of diminishing returns.
If the price of wheat is 75 Rupees per quintal and price of nitrogen fertilizer is 2 Rupees per kilogram then use of 50 kilogram of nitrogen fertilizer only is most profitable for the farmer.
By using up to 60 kilograms of nitrogen fertilizer the surplus cost comes to 20 Rupees while as surplus income is obtained only 1875 Rupees.
By this there is deficit of 125 Rs in the total obtained profit.
Price of fertilizer 175 Rupees and price of wheat being 100 Rs per quintal , use of 60 kilogram of nitrogen fertilizer is most profitable for the farmer.
In this way , in the case of change in the production equipment and price of produce , the maximum profitable level of production equipment is found out.
The maximum profitable level of production equipment is different for different price situations.
In the case of price of fertilizer being 200 Rs per kilogram and price of wheat 100 Rs per quintal , 60 kilograms of fertilizer is the maximum profit giving level because at this level ratio of surplus produce and amount of surplus production equipment is 0.025 when the inverse ratio of their prices is 0.020.
As this ratio is more then the inverse ratio of the prices and after this it starts reducing , so at that level of prices use of 60 kilogram fertilizer is the favorable amount of profit giving level for the farmer.
The general specialities of a iso-product curve are those only which are of indifferent curve , like two iso-product curves do not cut each other and iso-product curve bends down towards the left.
The downward bend of a iso-product curve depends on the capacity of one equipment to replace another equipment.
The law of principles of equi-marginal ratio - according to the principle of opportunity cost , for obtaining maximum profit on the farm , each unit of limited resources has to be used in such a way that from each unit of production resource maximum marginal income can be obtained.
Farmers get maximum profit by taking decisions based on the knowledge of marginal income.
To take decision according to the principle of equi-marginal ratio , farmers need low numbers.
Fixed or firm-cost - All the costs on the farm , which do not bring any change in the amount of production of the enterprise , are called fixed costs.
Fixed costs are not related to the amount of production of the enterprise.
Fixed cost remains same in all situations of having more production or doing no production or having less production.
Rent on land , interest of loan taken , depreciation of machines , tax , amount of installment of crop insurance , rent of electricity meter , etc. are called fixed costs on the farm.
If the total income obtained from the farm is more than total cost , then a farmer should keep farming till that time till which the amount of surplus income becomes more than the amount surplus cost.
By taking decision based on this law , there is constant increase in the amount of profit obtained by the farmer.
This principle of farm-management describes various enterprises on the farm , knowledge of combination of crops of foodgrains , pulses , cotton , sugarcane , oilseeds , animal husbandry , poultry , fruits and vegetables etc. and the relation found among of various enterprises.
The goal of this principle is help make maximum amount of profit from the various activities undertaken by farmers on the farm.
Disconnected activities - Disconnected activities are those in which there is no relation between them.
By increasing the level of one activity no effect comes on the level of other activity.
Meaning , both activities neither compete with each other activity for production resources and nor are they helpful to each other activity in increasing production.
When there is no relation among different activities then decision should be taken to produce two activities in a separate way.
Like bajra in the monsoon season and wheat in the winter season.
When the production resources available on the farm are in unlimited amount , then a situation of incoherence is found in the above mentioned outputs.
Helping or complementary -LRB- complementary -RRB- activities - Complementary activities are those which are helpful in increasing output of other activities , meaning when efforts are made to increase the output of one activity , the output of other activity increases on its own.
Like legume crops -LRB- barseem , peas etc. -RRB- and foodgrains crops.
By the efforts done for increasing the output of legume crops , the production of foodgrain crops sowed in that land in the next season increases on its own because of filling of more amount of nitrogen in the soil.
Farming is considered the backbone of economy of India.
By various programs and efforts run through the different five year plans , farming has got a prestigious place in the national economy.
Almost 64 % laborers have got wages in the agriculture sector.
In 1950-51 the share of agriculture was 59.2 % in the gross domestic product which decreasing remained 36.4 % in 1982-82 and 34.9 % in 1990-91 and 25 % in 2001-2002.
This decreasing remained 18.5 % during the period 2006-07 based on average.
During tenth plan -LRB- 2002-2007 -RRB- the average increase in gross domestic product was 7.6 % while as in this period the annual growth rate of agriculture and related sectors remained 2.3 %.
In the first 6 years of the new century that started from 2001-02 , the annual general average increase rate has been 3.0 % , 10 % in 2003-04 and 6 % in 2005-06.
Almost 28 % of the country's national income is obtained from agriculture.
Almost 70 % population is dependent on agriculture for its livelihood.
A big share of exports from the country comes from agriculture.
In non agricultural sectors , in big amounts , consumer goods and raw material for many industries is sent by this sector only.
Agriculture is a occupation related to producing food and other material by the means of farming and forestry.
This has played an important role in the birth and growth of civilizations.
Dr. Norman Borlaug who is considered the father of ' Green Revolution ' in India had launched many programs to make the country foodgrain rich.
Animal husbandry and insect farming also has contribution in agriculture.
This occupation was developed to grow plants and collect foodgrains.
Gardening is also a form of agriculture.
Many levels of techniques and know-how is included in agriculture , in it those techniques are included by which land useful for growing plants is expanded , for this channels of water are dug and other forms of irrigation are used.
Growing crops on cultivable land and grazing cattle on pastures by shepherds are mainly activities related to agriculture.
Knowing the different forms of agriculture and developing them have been the main point of discussion in the last century.
In India , in the beginning years of the fifth decade , the daily availability of grains per person was 395 gram , which increased to reach to 468 gram in 1990-91 , 528.77 gram in 1996-97 , 467 gram in 1999-2000 , 455 gram in 2000-01 , 416 gram in 2001-02 , 494 gram in 2002-03 , 436 gram 2003-04.
In year 2005-06 this availability per person per day became 412 gram.
In the world the country farming pulses in maximum area in India only.
Inspite of this the per person daily availability of pulses has not been satisfactory.
Usually per year a decrease has been recorded in it.
In year 1951 the daily per person availability of pulses was 60.7 gram , that same became 69.0 in 1961 , 51.2 gram in 1971 , 37.5 gram in 1981 , 41.6 gram in 1991 , 30.0 gram in 2001.
Hybrid seed of cotton was first made in India only.
In different areas of agriculture also Indian scientists have achieved success in developing most advanced and useful technology.
Crop-cycle has become full of variety.
In the time after the green revolution started from 1967-68 to 2005-06 the annual growth rate of agriculture produce was approximately 2.45 %.
Foodgrain output from 890 lakh tons in 1964-65 increased to become 2098 lakh ton in 1999-2000 , 1968 lakh ton in 2000-01 , 2119 lakh ton in 2001-02 , 1748 lakh ton in 2002-03 , 2132 lakh ton in 2003-04 , 1984 lakh ton in 2004-05 , 2086 lakh ton in 2005-06 , while as foodgrain output is epected to be 2173 lakh during 2006-07.
As a result of the change in the crop-cycle , the importance of non-traditional crops like sunflower , soyabean and groundnut which grows in summer is increasing.
In 1970-71 the agriculture output index was 85.9.
From the index 102.1 of 1980-81 and index 148.4 of 1990-91 , this index increased to become 178.8 in 2001-02 , 150.4 in 2002-03 , 182.8 in 2003-04 , 177.3 in 2004-05 and in 2005-06 this index became 191.6 while as in 2006-07 this index is expected to be 197.1.
The main reason for this is the increase in the yield of rice , wheat , pulses , oilseeds , sugarcane and other cash crops.
In India mainly three crops are sown - monsoon , winter and summer -LRB- jaayad -RRB-.
In the crop of monsoon mainly there are corn , jowar , maize , paddy , groundnut , soyabean , lentils , etc..
Among main crops of winter are wheat , barley , chickpeas , peas , mustard , coleseed etc..
In crops of summer mainly vegetables are only sown.
93.1 % of the total 3287.3 lakh hector of geographical area of the country is brought in the use of farming.
Farming is one such occupation in which there are many factors for production on which there is no control of the farmer or scientists.
In such factors , climate is the most important factor.
In various regions , other than the usual season-cycle also when the weather will become how can not be known.
Other than this , crops are changed according to the climate and not climate according to the crop.
So only , which crop should be sown in any place , depends on the climate , soil , height , monsoon etc. of there.
Today many opportunities are available for agricultural engineers.
They have been offered laboratories and also all facilities for research etc. by which the country can be made foodgrain rich.
Agricultural engineers' encouragement and for their recognition they are given the ' Borlaug Award '.
The main specialities of Indian agriculture are as follows.
Most part of Indian agriculture depends on the monsoon for irrigation.
An important speciality of Indian agriculture is multitude of units of landholdings and their size being less.
In Indian agriculture , the total area under cultivation is divided into parts and all the parts are situated at a distance.
In direct or indirect form , there is more load of population on the land.
Agricultural produce is dependent mainly on the nature.
Due to poverty , Indian farmer does less capital investment in farming.
Priority is given to production of foodgrains.
Agriculture is considered a means of livelihood.
In Indian agriculture most farming activity depends on animals.
In India , variety is seen in the use of land.
In 1950-51 there were forests in 404.8 lakh hectors land out of the total geographical area 3287.3 lakh hectors of the country.
In 1998-99 this area increased to become 689.7 lakh hectors and in 2000-01 694.07 lakh hectors.
In the same period , cultivable land from 1187.5 lakh hectors increased to become 1426 lakh hectors and 1411.01 lakh hectors respectively.
If seen from the viewpoint of types of crops then foodgrain farming is done more than non-foodgrains in the total cultivable area , but the farming of foodgrain which was done on 76.7 % land in 1950-51 , that has decreased to remain 65.6 % during 1998-99.
According to agricultural census , area coming under big cultivation -LRB- 10 hectors and more than that -RRB- decreased to remain 17.3 % in 1990-91 compared to 20.1 % in 1985-86.
In the same way , area coming under marginal cultivation -LRB- less than 1 hector of cultivation -RRB- from 13.4 % in 1985-86 increased to become 15 % in 1990-91.
Indian agriculture is full of many diversities.
Indian agriculture is influenced by climatic diversity , fertility of soil , changing weather , method of farming , etc..
Based on amount of output and method of farming , agriculture of India can be categorized in the form of pure and hybrid agriculture.
Pure agriculture is basically traditional type of agriculture through which only basic necessities of the farmers are fulfilled.
Agronomy - Agronomy -LRB- Agronomy -RRB- is that branch of agriculture under which principles of crop production and land management and agricultural activities are studied.
Importance of crops - The life of every creature living on the earth is dependent directly or indirectly on plants.
From plants , other than food and oxygen for creatures , clothes , dwelling and medicines etc. are also supplied for the population.
One yearly - These crops complete their life cycle in one year or lesser time than that , like grains , wheat , barley , gram , soyabean etc..
Two yearly - In such plants , first year vegetational growth of the plant happens and second year , flowers and seeds are formed in them.
Meaning , they complete their life cycle in two years.
Multi yearly - Such plants live upto many years.
But in their life cycle every year or in a gap of one year flowers and fruits come and the life cycle gets completed.
Like - lucerne , napier grass.
Categorization based on seasons.
Monsoon - These crops need high temperatures and humidity at the time of sowing and at the time of ripening , dry atmosphere.
In northern India they are sown in June-July.
Grains , corn , jowar , bajra , green lentils , groundnuts , sugarcane etc. are the main crops of this season.
Crops of monsoon come in C3 class.
In the plants of this class , available water capacity and light synthesis rate both are more while as light breathing rate is less.
Autumn - These crops need less temperature at the time of sowing and dry and warm atmosphere at the time of ripening.
These crops generally are sown in the months of October-November.
Wheat , barley , gram , mustard , baraseem etc. are the main crops of this class.
Autumn crops come in C4 class.
The speciality of the plants of this class is that their available water capacity and light synthesis rate both is less.
In this way , in these plants activity of breathing and light synthesis happens in the light of the day also.
Jaayad - A good ability to tolerate scorching heat and dry winds is there in the crops of this class.
In northern Indian these crops are mainly sown in March-April.
Watermelon , cucumber , gherkins etc. are the main crops of this class.
India's total area is 32.8 crore hectors , of whose 92.2 % numbers related to land use are available.
In present , in the country , pure cultivated area is 16.2 crore hector.
In this way 51 percent of the total area comes under agriculture , while as , pastures on almost 4 percent land , forests on 21 percent land and 24 percent land is barren or without any use.
The 24 % barren land also includes 5 % fallow land , in which without sowing crops every year , are sowed every three or five years , by which the fertility of soil is accumulated.
Only on 28 percent part , that is , 4.5 crore hectors land of this 52 % pure cultivated area , enough facility for irrigation is available , while as the all irrigated area of the country is 8 crore hectors.
In this way , of the total cultivable land , farming done on almost 72 % part depends only on monsoon and on more than half part of the total irrigated area , irrigation is done by small means of irrigation , wells , ponds , lakes , reservoirs , dams , tube-wells , temporary dams of mud , canals and water springs.
Irrigation of rest of the area is done by big means like canals , streams etc..
India is a country of spices.
From ancient times only India has been trading spices in foreign countries , of which history is a witness.
Although spices have been playing an important role in Indian agriculture from centuries but their importance grew more by which French , Portuguese and British traders got attracted to this country.
As a result of the successful historical part of these traders this country remained clenched in the clamp of slavery for 300 years.
After getting independence , the growing deficit of foodgrains did not let the attention of the government and the agriculture department to go towards this important agricultural produce.
As a result , no increase could happen in per unit output and productivity of spices because the farming of spices was done somehow in the traditional way.
But after 25 years of heavy research , along with development of high yielding varieties of different spices , scientific technique of farming was developed.
The consolidated bookkeeping of which is the plot of this book by adopting which farmers can obtain more net profit along with more output.
India is a country of spices.
In ancient times , people from different countries of the world start salivating with greed on the name of spices from here.
The want of spices only forced Vasco-da-Gama to come to India bearing lakhs of obstacles.
India is biggest producer , consumer and exporter of spices in the world.
Annual spices - The life cycle of these spice-crops is completed in one season or one year.
Meaning these crops are grown every year in some special season.
Like - turmeric , ginger , coriander , fenugreek , fennel , thyme , mangarail , garlic and red chilli.
Multi-year spices - After sowing this class of spice crops , spices are gotten for many years , so they are called multi-year spices like black pepper , cinnamon , clove , nutmeg , mace , small cardamom and big cardamom etc..
From ancient times Indians are using spices for making food tempting , tasty , interesting , zesty and fragrant.
None of the Indian delicacy can be made without spices and even if made it's taste and color becomes dull.
Thus spices lend attractive color , tempting taste and agreeable aroma to Indian vegetarian and non-vegetarian food.
This is the reason that Indian food wins the mind of native of any country of the world due to its tangy taste , aroma and color.
Food without spices in like mud.
In India spices are used with predominance on auspicious and happy occasions.
In the worship of Godesses-Gods spices like clove and turmeric have special importance.
In the worship of Mother Sheetala ladies offer ground clove and cinnamon mixed in water.
On the auspicious occasion of marriage the groom-bride are applied a paste of turmeric by which body becomes clean , soft , beautiful and attractive.
Even now in villages the cloth colored with powder of turmeric is given to wear for the groom-bride on the occasion of marriage , but slowly in the modern environment the importance of these rites-rituals is fading away.
Medication may be Ayurvedic or Allopathic or Homeopathic , in all spices are the unfailing medicine for thousands of ailments.
In rural areas even today spices only are used in order to cure many types of diseases.
Our ancestors must have made the use of spices like black pepper and turmeric compulsory in our food ingredients , because black pepper has a strong quality of disease resistance and turmeric is cancer resistant.
By use of spices edible substances are preserved.
Edible substances like chutney , pickles stay preserved for long time only on the strength of spices and do not get spoiled.
Because species have the infinite capacity to destroy germs.
The history of spices is older than the birth of Greece and Rome.
Along with perfumes and cloths Indian spices were also brought into Mesopotamia , Arab and Egyptian countries by ships.
The greed for spices only had made many voyagers to stand on the the shores of Indian seas.
Even before the start of this century , Greek traders used to collect in the markets of south India and along with other important things definitely used to buy spices.
As much Indian spices were dear in the Vasco-da-Gama period , that chain of selling price continued after centuries because spices only were helpful for filling of the insufficient food of Europe.
In that medieval period one pound of mace was equal to the cost of three sheep or half a cow.
The sea voyage of Vasco-da-Gama started a race for supremacy over international spices market.
Till three centuries after this , western European countries Portugal , Spain , France , Holland and Great Britain taking spices from spices producing countries kept having brutal sea fights among each other.
In all practicality , the charming history of spices became a story of finding seizing spices by competitive , terrible , adventurous ship voyages.
Coriander is a famous spice.
There are many amazing qualities in it.
Leaves and seeds of coriander both are used in food.
The green leaves of coriander are used in the form of spice , salad , chutney and medicine.
Sugar , protein , calcium , iron , and vitamin ' A ' are in large amount in it's leaves.
The water of coriander is brought to use in the stoppage of indigestion and other stomach ailments.
Actually the farming of coriander is done in some amount all over India but it's commercial farming is done in Gujarat , Rajasthan , Haryana , Punjab , Bihar , Andhra Prdesh , Madhya Pradesh , Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra.
In Bihar among the districts growing coriander Champaran , Vaishali , Mujaffarpur , Samastipur , Saran , Bhojpur , Patna , Begusarai , Khagdiya , Munger , Bhagalpur and Sahebgunj are main.
In Bihar , a very large area of Ganges ait from Buxar to Sahebgunj is full of farms of coriander.
In this area the productivity of coriander is more compared to other areas , the reason is that the soil of the ait is very fertile.
For coriander you can choose from light mold soil to heavy clayey soil but be careful that there are enough organics in the soil and also has capacity to hold water.
Do not choose such a soil in which water gets accumulated when it rains.
Coriander can be taken as a baraani crop in the ait area after the flood water has receded.
Ploughing the soil once with a soil turning plough and twice with an indigenous plough make the soil loose but flat by moving a trowel.
Deep effect of the time of sowing falls on the produce of coriander.
From the research done in the Dholi area of Rajendra Agricultural University , it has been proved that the best time to sow coriander is between 15 October to 30 October.
On sowing the crop after this gradually there is decrease in the output and the outbreak of hump disease and white calcified disease of coriander start becoming faster.
So for good output definitely sow coriander at the right time.
In our country most farmers are marginal who want to grow the crop of coriander in the form of inter crop.
Coriander can be grown in the form of inter crop in the middle of crops like tobacco , potato , sweet potato , autumn time corn , cabbage , eggplant , tomato , chilli and peas.
By growing inter crop of coriander in eggplant , the attack of insects also becomes less.
In northern Bihar autumn time sugarcane , inter-farming of coriander is very common and a source of good income also.
In this way , for green leaves also , you can earn good income by doing inter-farming of coriander in the middle of these crops.
The straws-grass shoots grown in the crop of coriander have averse effect on it's output.
So for more produce de-weeding-gudaaee is very necessary.
In he baaraani regions 30-40 days after sowing when the plants become 5-6 c.m long then de-weeding-gudaaee should be done.
By doing this the farm will stay weed free and moisture will be retained in the farm.
For healthy seeds and good produce , uprooting unwanted plants from the rows of crops , the distance between plant and plant should be kept 15 to 20 c.m.
The uprooted plants should be sold in the market in the form of green leaves.
Wilt -LRB- wilt -RRB- - This disease happens due to a fungus named Fusarium Oxyporum.
Because of this disease there is a 40 to 50 percent decrease in the output.
The leaves of the disease inflicted plant first start becoming yellow and then start falling.
Later the whole plant withers.
The convective fibers of the roots become colorless.
This is a soilborne disease.
This fungus stays in the soil for long periods.
Powder fungus - this disease happens due to a fungus named Erysiphe Polygoni.
Because of the infliction of this disease , a white powder like substance collects on the leaves and other parts.
As a result fruits are either not borne and if they are borne they do not ripen properly on the plant.
For its prevention 0.03 percent Sulphex medicine has to be sprinkled.
Coriander along with a spice is also a home medicine.
Its effect is coolness giving.
The seed of coriander is anti-acidic , anti-gastric diseases , appetizing , takes away indigestion and vomiting.
By chewing 8-10 seeds of coriander bad breath of the mouth goes away.
By usage of coriander in spices indigestion ends and helps in stomach bloating.
In India fenugreek is used in in the form of vegetables and spice.
Its leaves and tender legume are used in the form of vegetables.
Dry seeds are used in spice , seasoning vegetables , pickles and medicines.
Seeds of fenugreek are anti-phlegmic , anti-pyretic , diuretic and beneficial in stomach ailments.
Fenugreek is divided into two parts.
First part is common fenugreek whose botanical name is " Trigonella Foenum-graecum ".
Common fenugreek is grown all over the country but compared to south it gives more output in north India.
Its plants grow quickly and straight erect offshoots come out and with the support of each leaf 2-3 flowers bloom.
Leaves are long and straight.
In the other part comes the name of kasuri or champa fenugreek.
Rajendra revolution - This type of development was done at the Dholi center situated in Rajendra Agricultural University.
Plants are bushy of medium height and many branches.
This is a " leaf-spot " disease resistant variety.
The crop gets ready for first harvesting 120 days after sowing.
It's average output -LRB- of seeds -RRB- is 1200 to 1500 kilogram per hector.
Co. -1 - This variety was developed by Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Coimbatore.
This is a fast growing variety.
Gets ready for first harvesting 90 days after sowing.
Its average output is 4000 to 5000 kilogram green leaf and 650 to 700 kilogram seeds per hector.
Methi No. 14 and Methi No. 47 - These are varieties of Maharashtra Agricultural Department which are juicy and full of Vitamin " C ".
Its output is not good.
E.C. 491 - This is a Punjab Agricultural Department approved one good variety.
Type-226 - This is a Indian Agricultural Research Institute , New Delhi recommended one good variety.
Fenugreek is crop of the cold season.
It easily withstands the attack of frost.
For its vegetational development long cold weather is necessary.
Fenugreek can be grown in all kinds of soil.
But for good output nutrient rich loose soil is specially useful.
A good provision of water draining out from the fields is necessary.
Slight acidic to slight alkaline soil is found to be good for its farming.
In the plains of North India the correct time for sowing fenugreek is mid September to mid November.
For getting leaves it can be sowed in February month also.
In hilly regions its sowing should be done in March-April.
Kasuri fenugreek should be sown in October month.
The first harvesting of common fenugreek should be done approximately 4 weeks after sowing.
This time the cutting of the plants should be done from near the ground.
After that harvest fenugreek for four to five times.
If seeds have to be taken then stop harvesting the plants after 2 to 3 harvests.
Of Kasuri fenugreek , for seeds , stop harvesting after taking 5 to 6 harvests.
On stopping harvesting the plants will grow and they will bear flowers , fruits and seeds.
When the fenugreek fruits ripening get ready then harvest the crop for seeds.
From various experiments it is known that for extra profit , before letting the plants to grow for seed production , two harvests from kasuri fenugreek and three from common fenugreek can be done for vegetable.
If the plants are let to grow without cutting then more seeds are formed.
Common and kasuri fenugreek grown for seeds is ready in 155 and 165 days for seed production respectively.
As far as possible , keep the crop grown for seeds free from grass-weeds.
Egypt is considered as the native place of origin of thyme.
In India its farming is done mainly in Madhya Pradesh , West Bengal , Uttar Pradesh , Gujarat , Rajasthan , Maharashtra and Bihar.
In Bihar state , farming of thyme is mainly done in Samastipur , Mujaffarnagar , Vaishali , Patna , Begusarai , Saran and Champaran districts.
Farming of thyme can be done in all kinds of soils.
Light soil is not good for its farming.
For more production banks of rivers are found to be useful.
Clayey loose soil which is full of nutrient elements and has the capacity to retain moisture is found to be best for its yield.
The output of thyme depends on its variety , fertility of the soil and care of crop.
Its average yield is almost 8 to 10 quintal per hector.
Mangrail has an important place among seedy spices.
Its farming is done in the form of cash crop.
By farming this more income can be earned from per unit area compared to other winter crops.
Black cumin -LRB- Nigella Sativa -RRB- is a member of Amblyferi family.
This is one yearly and vegetable plant.
The height of the plants is 40 to 50 c. m. and leaves are 2.5 to 3.0 c. m. long and pointed.
Its flowers are blue and seeds black.
Its farming is done in our country India mainly in Bihar , Punjab , Rajasthan , Himachal Pradesh , Assam and Uttar Pradesh.
The best time to sow black cumin is from mid October to end October.
By sowing this time the plants grow well and have lots of yield.
Likewise good output can be obtained by sowing it even till end of November.
It is necessary to keep the seeds for almost 10 to 15 hours putting in water before sowing the seeds.
At the end the seeds have to be strained and dried in shade for almost 2 hours.
Sow the seeds at a depth of almost 3 c. m..
By doing this the seeds germinate well.
The seeds taking root , the plants come out of the ground after almost 10 days.
Garlic is a special crop of spices.
Garlic is used in both non-vegetarian and vegetarian types of food.
It is used in vegetables , chutney , pickle and lentils also.
Garlic is also used to cure many types of ailments.
So it is said that garlic is the household doctor of the rural people.
In India farming of garlic is done in almost 30 thousand hector land.
From which 27 lakh quintal yield is obtained.
From India per year 262 tons of garlic was exported in year 1993-94 from which 3 crores 16 lakhs Rupees of foreign currency was earned.
A brown or yellow color sulphur compound named Allyl is found in garlic oil.
By its oil mosquito larva die after becoming unconscious , with that by spraying on house flies , red bug of cotton , tuber moths of potato and red palm weevil eggs , the babies do not come out and the crop can be saved from potential harm.
By daily use garlic supplements the food in protein , carbohydrates , calcium , iron , phosphorus and vitamin C and B etc..
Garlic is largely grown in Uttar Pradesh , Bihar , Delhi , Haryana , Punjab , Himachal Pradesh , Rajasthan , Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh.
Cold climate is necessary for growing garlic.
At the time of forming of the garlic cloves smaller and at the time of ripening longer days are needed.
Garlic can be successfully grown up to 1000 to 1400 meter height from the sea level and up to 70 percent humidity.
Mainly garlic is of two types , first white and second red.
In food mostly white garlic is only used because there is less hotness in it.
Because of more hotness in red garlic it used less in food and more in medicines.
Type-56-4 : Its bulbs are small.
This is developed by Punjab Agricultural University , Ludhiana by selection process.
Per bulb the number of cloves is from 25 to 34.
Solan : This variety was developed by Himachal Pradesh Agricultural University , Palampur.
The leaves are slightly long and of dark color than other varieties.
The cloves are quite thick than other varieties and its typical yield can be obtained from 110 to 120 quintals per hector.
Coimbatore-2 : This variety was developed by Tamil Nadu Agricultural University , Coimbatore in 1991.
The cloves are of white color and very attractive.
The typical yield of this variety is 110 - to 125 quintals per hector.
Garlic I. C. 49381 and I. C. 42891 : This variety was developed by Indian Agricultural Research Institute , New Delhi.
Their typical yield is up to 130 quintals per hector.
This variety becoming ripe gets ready in 160 to 180 days.
Garlic can be grown in the form of between crop in the crops of red chili , tobacco , potato , fennel etc..
In northern Bihar , garlic can be grown as between crop in a commercial form in between two rows of tobacco crop by which the cost for growing tobacco crop gets covered.
Use urea 270 quintals per hector -LRB- 1 part at the time of sowing and remaining three times -RRB-.
Mix muriate of potash at the rate of 100 kilogram per hector in the soil.
In the last stage of preparation of the farm putting 20 kilogram V. H. C. -LRB- ten percent -RRB- dust in the soil per hector mix nicely.
For sowing buy the cloves from any trustworthy institute.
Before sowing first choose healthy bulbs then breaking these healthy bulbs choose good cloves.
The work of sowing the cloves is done from September to November in the plains and from March to May in the hilly areas.
For obtaining good yield do sowing by dibbling at a distance of 7.5 c. m. in rows made at a distance of 15 c. m..
Do the first watering immediately after sowing of cloves and later keep watering at interval of 10 to 15 days.
For obtaining typical yield do the first weeding of the crop by a trowel almost 20 to 25 days after sowing and second weeding after almost 15 days.
After that , keeping attention on the weeds and the state of the crop should keep doing the work of restricting weeds.
Predetermination of the weeds can be done by chemical process but ventilation of air in the soil is obstructed by which the size of the bulbs becomes small.
Blight -LRB- Blight -RRB- - This disease happens by Alternaria Pelindulai fungus.
Yellow and white spots are seen on the leaves in this disease.
The spots make a strip like tear in the leaves.
The cure of this disease can be done by seed treatment by Indofil M-45 or by paying attention to the spread of the disease on the crop by spraying bordeaux mixture.
Smut -LRB- Smut -RRB- - This disease happens by fungus Urocyctis cepulae.
The disease in seen in the form of black spots on the tender leaves and older leaves start withering and in the worse stage of the disease the development of the bulbs stops.
For prevention , work of sowing should be done by treating 10 kilogram cloves with 50 gram airesan.
White falling disease happens by Sclerotium cepivorum fungus.
The bulbs affected by this look healthy but soon start rotting.
This is more effective from July to October.
The prevention of the disease can be done by choosing again and again the infected cloves during storage.
Garlic blast - The spots of this disease are deep brown in color like ash.
The affected part getting destroyed falls down the reason for the disease it still not known.
So prevention can be done by destroying the plant burning from the root as soon as the symptoms of the disease are seen.
Mildew - This disease happens by Peronospora destructer.
The symptoms are found in the form of yellow spots because of which the growth of the plant stops and symptoms of chlorosis start being seen.
Prevention of the disease , dissolving at the rate of 3.0 kilogram jinev or sulphur or nevam or Indofil M-45 in 1000 litre water per hector should be sprayed.
The crop of garlic ripening gets ready in 130 to 180 days.
Digging the bulbs with stem , tying in small bundles are dried for three-four days keeping the sun.
After this breaking the stems , separating the bulbs are stored in the normal atmosphere at a temperature of 32 to 36 degree F and 60 percent humidity for a long time.
The yield of garlic depends on the variety , soil , weather and plant care.
In normal circumstances up to 120 to 130 quintal per hector of yield can be obtained.
If 120 quintal garlic is sold at 1200 Rupees per quintal then 1,44,000 rupees will be obtained.
In this way daily 522 rupees of net income is obtained from one hector of garlic crop.
There are many hear-say stories famous about the origin of garlic.
One famous ancient story is that once Mother Lakshmi was drinking nectar.
At that time some drops of nectar fell on the earth and they froze in the form of garlic.
When all animals started getting immortality by eating garlic , then Lord Yama became worried and requested Lord Brahma that Lord , now nobody will die on the earth.
Then Lord Brahma filled foul smell in garlic and Gods declared it a devilish food.
The foul smell in garlic is due to a chemical named Allyl propyl disulphide.
The herb in which there are thousand virtues , we call that ' garlic '.
Garlic gives man healthy body , shinning eyes , strong teeth , wonderful virility and long age.
Garlic is the nature gifted great medicine for the protection of mankind.
From last six thousand years it is being used for curing many diseases not only in our country but also in Italy , France , Germany , China , Greece , Egypt , Babylonia , Spain etc..
According to the people of all these countries , by the use of garlic , -LRB- one -RRB- can stay away from diseases and problems of intestines , lungs , gas formation , worms of stomach , wounds on the body , skin diseases , infection in the breathing system etc..
Greece , In ancient Greece a garland of garlic used to be put in the neck of a new born baby and paste of garlic used to be put on his lips and tongue.
In the same way the room of the pregnant woman also used to be decorated by garlands of garlic by which the mother can give birth to a healthy baby.
The natives of Rome used to daily feed garlic to make their soldiers strong and brave.
France - In the sixteenth century thousands of people from the French ports were saved from death by garlic only.
Due to the spread of the deadly disease of plague many people died , at that time it was found that garlic is a plague preventing spice and its use can save a plague patient.
According to Henry Calpedore of England , garlic is a poor man's medicine and many diseases can be controlled by this.
Garlic protects us from stomach pain , sore throat , disease of the throat , worms of stomach , headache and outbreak of plague.
In Ukraine one tonic is made from garlic which people use for long age , increase in beauty and retaining youthfulness.
According to them by regular use of garlic shine of face and the feeling of youthfulness remains and a person again feels like becoming of less age.
India - According to experts garlic is an unfailing cure for healing wounds and removing boils pimples.
The biggest reason for this is there are Vitamin C and sulphur in large quantities in garlic which are beneficial in healing wounds and burnt-cut areas and forming new skin.
It is known from research that a natural germicidal capacity is there in garlic.
It protects our body from many minute germs , fungus and virus which are dangerous for us and which spread many contagious disease.
According to preceptor Charak , if somebody chewing garlic consumes its juice everyday , then he always will stay healthy and he will never get any disease.
Black pepper is an important crop of spices.
Its plant is perennial , climbing creeper on which many small round fruits are borne.
The place of birth of black pepper is the area of western coast of Southern India.
It farming mainly is done in Kerala , Karnataka , Tamil Nadu but farmers have also started doing it on small scale in Pondichery , Andaman , Tripura , Maharashtra , Manipur , Odisha , Assam , Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal.
Apart from India its farming is done in Thailand , Bangladesh , Indonesia , Malaysia , Myanmar and neighboring country Sri Lanka.
Black pepper whose botanical name is Piper Nigrum , is a member of Piperaceae family.
Its plant is evergreen , perennial and creepery , for whose growth useful support is necessary.
The self-nutritious stems coming from creeper have apasthaanik roots.
These roots nicely clasp themselves to the adherent tree only to give support to the creeper.
In this plant flowering and fruition happens on its kaniya , slanting branches.
Among most varieties of black pepper the main is the unisexual variety.
Its flowers bloom from May to August.
Flowers are on the spikes of the plant in the form of bunches in the number of 30-150.
It takes 6-8 months for the fruits to grow and ripen from the flower , meaning the fruits ripening get ready by December-February.
In areas of more rain and more cold , he flowers and fruits come late in this plant.
Black pepper is mainly tropical , perennial , creepery plant.
Its farming is done in the form of non-irrigated crop in such places where the average rainfall in up to 2500 m. m. and temperature remains 25 to 35 centigrade.
This can tolerate upto 10-40 centigrade temperature and its farming can be done up to the height of 1200 meter from sea level.
For this useful water draining , fertile , crumbly and deep soil is needed.
Likewise , its farming can be done from clayey moldy soil to sandy moldy soil also , but soil with lot of humus is most useful for it.
Likewise it can be grown in 5 to 5.5 P.H soil also.
Generally plants of black pepper are grown in grafts.
Prepare the graft from long stems of the shrubs of old black pepper plants only.
From the plants grown from the planted horizontal creepers..
In I.B.A 50 P.P.M treated grafts , roots come more and quickly.
It is very difficult to grow black pepper from seeds because germination of seeds also happens very less.
There are almost more than 70 varieties of back pepper grown of which some are bisexual and some are uni-sexual.
Among them most famous are malabar varieties of south Kerala like kalluvazhi , balankotta , cheriakondy , uthirankota , karinkota.
Pannipur-1 : This variety was developed by doing hybrid of uthirankota and cheriakaniakadan varieties.
This is useful for various areas and give flowers quickly.
Recently Indian Spice Resaearch Institute , Calicut , Kerala has developed some better varieties of black pepper.
Srikara : This variety is best for Kerala and South Karnataka.
Its maximum dry yield is 2.67 ton per hector.
Shubhkara : Its development was also done by choosing method from karimunda variety.
Its maximum dry yield is 2.35 ton per hector.
Krishna : This is one free pollination variety whose development was done from balankotta variety.
From each creeper a yield of 4.94 kilo of green fruits is obtained.
Shyama : Its development is done by hybrid of uthirankota and cheriakaniakadan varieties.
All these black pepper are found to be useful for productive sector.
In them karimunda , veluthanamban , cheriakaniakadan , kuthiravally , chola , kariyulachi , chumala and kotha are famous.
In the malabar area of Karnataka state vorkaiyya marata , Doddagya , Karimarata , Arasilamarata , Malligesara and Tattisara of black pepper are famous.
For the farming of black pepper soil of newly cut farms of tea , cardamom and coffee is good.
Its sowing is started with the first shower of monsoon itself , in October-November only pits of 45X45X45 c.m size are dug at the distance of 3-4 meter.
These plants germinate in almost 4 weeks , then in July-August grafts of black pepper are implanted.
From close to the roots in the plants of black pepper some soil-strata like shoots grow.
The grafts are in the form of 2 to 4 long pieces of vestibule which are planted in nursery.
These pits are filled with fertile soil and compost.
Pits are not made in the southern and south western direction of the supporting trees.
In the farms of pure black pepper crop its plants are kept at a distance of 3-4 meter.
Black pepper creepers can be made to climb on coconut , mango , jack fruit and betel trees also and it is grown between the plants of cardamom , tea and coffee also.
After monsoon comes the supporting plans are cut from above once a year so that the plants are not affected by polu-fleas beetles.
In India in pure crop farms it is advised to put 10 kilogram cow dung fertilizer or compost , 5 kilogram ammonium sulphate , 1 kilogram single super phosphate and 100 gram muriate of potash per plant.
The fertilizers should be kept at the depth of 15 c.m in the pits dug near the concerned plants and at a distance of 30 c.m from the roots of the plants.
There is no standard way found for the cutting-harvesting of the plants of black pepper.
Maximum branches may come on each main creeper , for this , sufficient cutting-harvesting of the plant is done.
Mainly two insects attack black pepper : -LRB- 1 -RRB- polu-fleas beetle -LRB- 2 -RRB- apex shoots borer.
These destructive insects can be controlled by spraying 0.2 percent D.D.T one time in July-August and second time in October.
Prevention of slow wilt in the diseases of black pepper happens by spraying one percent bordeaux mixture in May-June and two times in September-October on the crop.
In hybrid variety Panniyur-1 fruits are borne in the second year only but in the seventh eighth year the plant starts giving full yield.
These fruits are borne in spikes and when one or two fruits become pink or red then the spikes are cut along with the fruits.
In the plains the fruits are cut from November to February.
The spikes along with the fruits are spread in a clean place , then crushing with legs they are separated from the spikes.
On drying , the fruits become light and in them special wrinkle of black pepper comes.
The white color black pepper is in much demand in foreign.
After this the upper soft layer and the pulp of the fruit are removed by rubbing with hands and the seeds are properly dried in the sun for 4-5 days.
After drying the seeds they are properly filtered and cleaned and they are made shiny by rubbing on a piece of cloth.
Normally in India the average yield of black pepper is only 250 k. g. per hector but by adopting the abovesaid procedures a farmers can obtain upto 900 to 1000 kilogram dried black pepper in one hector land.
Use of black pepper in the form of spice is prevalent for making both vegetarian and non-vegetarian types of food tasty and delicious in India and in other countries of the world.
Black pepper is used in the form of main ingredient in kadhi powder , chaat masala , pulao masala , chana masala , meat masala , sambhar masala etc..
The essence of black pepper is used to make fragrant meat and liquor Scent and soap are also made from its perfume.
Black pepper is cough destroyer.
Black pepper is an unfailing medicine for many diseases also.
With daily use of black pepper indigestion and mental perturbation does not happen.
People of Egypt use oil of black pepper to prevent their corpses from decaying.
People from South-East Asia always use black pepper for keeping their sexual prowess high readily.
Now many types of Ayurvedic medicines are made from black pepper and even in western medicine it is being used.
Black pepper has the potential to prevent many pests-insects.
On storing wheat by mixing powder of black pepper -LRB- at the rate of 1000 p.p. m -RRB- for 36 months it does not get affected by weevil.
In the past quarter 184 trainings were organized by 11 agricultural science centers of the state working under the university from which 3892 farmers , women and rural youth were benefited.
Other than this , from the 8 trainings organized for the broadcasting employees of the linear department totally 143 broadcasting employees was trained.
Other than this , 3 farmer fairs , 1034 agriculture exhibitions , 368 farmer seminars were organized by the scientists working at the agricultural science centers by which totally 71,300 farmers were benefited.
16 farmer-useful articles written by scientists were published and 6 radio news and 31 television news were participated in.
During this time 509 farmers toured the agricultural science centers and 241 soil samples were also inspected in the agricultural science centers.
The agricultural science centers played an active role in forming 7 women member parties and 2 farm science clubs.
365 lectures were given by scientists by wich 22055 farmers were benefited and 4 animal camps were also organized by which 1114 animal rearers were benefited.
In the tatvaadhaan of the Directorate of Broadcasting Education a famous " All India Farmers Fair and Agricultural Exhibition " by the name ' Krishi Kumbha ' was organized on 6-9 March 2010 in the premises of the university.
Shri Bisht said that 75 percent of the land in the state is hilly and there is a lot of variety in the climate and geographical conditions here.
So only techniques have to be developed keeping this in mind and the direction of the research should change corresponding to the natural resources of the state.
He said that now such a farming is needed by which in less yield more profit is gained.
He said that the role of quality seeds is special in increasing of farm yield.
He appealed to the farmers to search for solutions of their farming related problems and seek information about new techniques through the medium of the fair.
In the fair different colleges of the university , national and international level firms putting up stalls exhibited products and techniques related to farming.
In the fair , exhibition and competition of fruits-flowers , vegetables and many other products , animal exhibition and competition , tillage competition and auction of hybrid calves was also organized.
A special lecture series was organized by keeping in mind the topic of this fair " Synergistic Farming in the Context of the Changing Climate ".
During the fair the farmers were specially interested in buying the quality seeds produced by the invention unit of the university.
On this occasion , being excited by high-tech farming , farmers showed their special interest in farming machines.
On the stall of Mahindra Tractor Sickle Sword -LRB- sugarcane cutting machine -RRB- manufactured by Brazil and Paddy Transplanter -LRB- paddy replanting machine -RRB- manufactured by Korea was the center of attraction of the farmers.
Harvesting of 7-8 acre of sugarcane can be done by sickle sword daily.
Its work efficiency is 20-30 tonnes per hour.
Korea manufactured paddy transplanter is capable of replanting one acre of paddy in 2.5-3 hours.
Manufacturing of safe and micro organic fuel with less than 86 percent green house emission through the medium of nano technique , stopping its damage by placing a damage free nano layer on the food items acquainted.
Other than this , stalls of various nationalized banks gave information about loans and other useful schemes for farmers.
Saying that small landholdings , lack of farming information and age-old marketing system are the important challenges of farming in hilly areas , he emphasized on making collective efforts in this directi.
Various products and techniques were exhibited by total 504 stalls along with 129 big stalls in the farmers fair and agricultural industry exhibition.
In the last quarter , meetings of the scientific advisory committees of the agricultural technology institutes situated in Champavat and Pithoragarh district were organized on 25 February , 2010 in Lohaghat Agricultural technology Center and on 26 February , 2010 in Gaina Anchalo Agricultural Technology Center.
During the meetings of the said scientific advisory committees , review of the progress of the last period was done and along with intense discussion on the strategy for agricultural development of the area , future action plan was also approved.
Honorable agriculture , agriculture education , agricultural marketing , animal husbandry , dairy development , fishery and horticulture minister Shri Trivendra Singh Rawat visited and inspected agricultural technology center , Nainital -LRB- Jyolikot -RRB- on 27 January , 2010 , agricultural technology center , Champavat -LRB- Lohaghat -RRB- on 9 February ,2010.
During the visit , he surveyed the crop exhibition displayed on the premises of the agricultural technology centers and a review was done of the activity of transfer of technology done by the centers for the benefit of the farmers.
The honorable minister described the work of the agricultural technology centers praiseworthy and appealed to the agricultural technology centers to make the technology transfer to far away areas in their districts more dynamic and effective.
In the past quarter 171 trainings were organized by 11 agricultural technology centers working under the university from which 3742 farmers , women and rural youth were benefited.
Under the advance line exhibition of crops , agricultural technology centers organized 192 advance line exhibitions in oilseed crops on 34.61 H. land , 308 in pulses crops on 37.83 H. land and 1086 in other crops on 123.90 H. land.
Agricultural Technology centers organized 11 domain days and 35 meetings of help groups , by which total 618 farmers were benefited.
In the domains of the agricultural technology centers oilseeds -LRB- 100.25 k. -RRB- pulses -LRB- 0.36 k. -RRB- , vegetable seeds -LRB- 0.36 k. -RRB- and sugarcane -LRB- 6539.62 k. -RRB- seeds were manufactured and making 1,45,648 saplings of fruits , vegetables , medicinal and decorative plants were distributed among the farmers.
During this , 356 farmers visited the agricultural technology centers and also studied 190 soil samples in the agricultural technology centers.
The agricultural technology centers played an active role in forming 2 women member parties and 9 farm science clubs.
In this training program discussion in detail was done on topics like current situation of agricultural marketing and the need to improve marketing in the changing environment , recognizing leadership development in farmers , use of information technology in agricultural marketing , farmer based processes of marketing under ATMA , ways of marketing education and partnership of farmers etc..
Safe composition favorable to unseasonal vegetables like low-tunnel and poly house etc. can reap two to three times more yield than traditional farming.
Throughout the year obtaining various types of vegetables can be possible by safe vegetable production and due to unseasonal production farmer can get very high prices in the market.
On the occasion of inauguration -LRB- 27-30 January , 2010 -RRB- of training titled ' Use of information technology in farming ' Dr. Y.P.S Dabbas , Director , Sameti-Uttarkhan said that in the age of information revolution use of information technology is probably being done in every filed of human life like banking , agriculture , transport , environment , entertainment , education , business , etc..
In information technology radio , television , computer , mobile , video conferencing , internet , portal , webpage , computer kiosk , tele medicine etc. are main.
The role of information technology is very important in agriculture.
After harvesting wheat , till the empty farming land deeply two-three times.
By which harmful pests and weeds present in the soil get destroyed.
Before putting the nursery of paddy , by immersing the seeds in 10 percent salt solution insects and infected seeds come on the surface of the water which should be separated by straining and use the healthy seeds.
To take a healthy crop of paddy , for a bed of 10 meter square , treat the soil mixing 50 to 100 grams of pant bio agent-3 along with 25 k.g cow dung.
After winter crop yield -LRB- ageti wheat -RRB- short term crops like green gram and cowpea can be taken before paddy.
Irrigation should be done in sugarcane crop as necessary.
In April month in the plains sow ginger , turmeric and yam and in the hilly areas potato.
In the May month in the hilly areas sow vegetables , peas and kidney beans.
For animal husbandry : - After harvesting and threshing winter crop there is a big change in the weather.
For solving the problem of green grass such a crop cycle should be adopted by which animals keep getting green grass.
For this interim crop is also an option like - corn in sugarcane , cowpea and green gram farming.
To increase the digestive power and nutrition of fodder , serve it by treating with 4 percent urea solution and molasses.
Give mineral mixture and salt to all animals in food regularly.
For protecting from heatstroke in summer keep the animals in a shady place under a tree or animal shelter and bathe and make drink lot of water.
On agricultural technology centers , Kashipur -LRB- Udhamsingh Nagar -RRB- , Dhanuri -LRB- Haridwar -RRB- , Dhakrani -LRB- Dehradun -RRB- and Lohaghat -LRB- Champawat -RRB- Arnet was inaugurated by honorable agriculture minister , Indian Government Shri Sharad Pawar on 21 April , 2010 through the medium of video conferencing from New Delhi.
By this facility , the scientists of these centers will be able to directly establish contact with Indian Agricultural Research Council through the medium of video conferencing.
Highland farming research and marketing interface workshop was organized under the chairmanship of Dr. Rajendra Prasad , Officiating Dean in Hill Agriculture and Forestry University , Ranichauri on 19 May , 2010.
The main aim of organizing this workshop was to transfer the latest research findings quickly to the farmers through the medium of scientists of the Agricultural technology centers.
This workshop was presided over by Dr. R.P Singh , Associate Director -LRB- Tree safety -RRB-.
Total 4 trainings have been organized by State Agricultural Management and Extension Training Institute -LRB- Sameti-Uttarkhand -RRB- from the last quarter.
The attendees described these trainings as very beneficial.
For the progressive farmers and Farmer Advisory Committee a training tiled ' Agricultural Management Analysis in the Changing Climate and Use of Weather Information ' was organized on 27-30 April 2010.
In this , information about the weather becomes very important.
Information about the weather come in front of us through newspapers , radio and doordarshan daily but we are not able to make use of these news.
If we make plans of the agricultural activities using weather forecast then it will be beneficial.
Total 21 trainees took part in this training.
A training program on " technology and value added fruit production '' was organized on May-19-22 , 2010 for the members of the technical team of block level development.
For the Farmer Advisory Council and the members of the technical team at the development division level , a training titled ' Crop Protection Management -LRB- Kharif -RRB- ' was held on 08-10 June , 2010.
Under this training , lectures were given on topics like major pests and disease management in summer crop , weed management and , major diseases of vegetables and management and , disease and insect management through bio process and trainees were given tour of bio-control lab and various research units.
Total 14 trainees took part in this training.
For the Farmer Advisory Council and the members of the technical team at the development division level , a training titled ' Broadcast according to the Market ' was held on 28-30 June , 2010.
In the last quarter , the Training and Touring Unit of the Broadcasting Education Directorate organized total 27 training programs sponsored by various government departments , self help organizations , private and public firms and projects.
Total 725 trainees got benefited by these training programs.
Most trainings were of three days to weekly also.
The total time duration of these training programs was 117 days.
The tourists got information about the new agricultural techniques from the university and bought improved seeds of grains , vegetables and flowers , literature on fruits , trees , plants and agricultural technology.
For agriculture : - For controlling weeds in grains use butachlor at the rate of 50 e. c. 3.0 litre or Anilophas 30 e. c. 1.65 litre amount per hector before 3-4 days from sowing.
In grains spray first 1 part of nitrogen in the form of urea at the time when shoots burst out and second 1 part before the flowers come on the spikes.
Sow the quick ripening varieties of black gram and green gram from mid July to first week August.
Do sowing of coleseed till August mid.
In the plains , sow crop of ageti potato and peas for vegetable in the August month.
For animal husbandry : - In the month of July and August there is a possibility of outbreak of various contagious diseases like enteritis , diarrhea , viral fever , throat choke , mouth ulcers - foot ulcer , etc..
On outbreak of these treat according to the advice of the veterinary.
Feed mother's milk -LRB- colostrum -RRB- to the new born baby equal to 10 percent of its body weight at an interval of 3 to 4 hours four to five times by which disease resistance develops in the baby.
If the new baby becomes an orphan then in place of colostrum , preparing a mixture of 15-20 m.l castor oil , one egg of chicken and 1 litre milk feed it three or four times making a dose.
There is more possibility of spreading of contagious diseases in the monsoon.
So pay attention to the cleanliness of the animals and their dwelling.
In Uttarakhand total declared forest area is 64.79 percent but according to the state forest report-2005 in reality only 45.70 percent of total land in the state is covered with forest.
Due to reduction in the forest area , imbalance of circumstances has been created because of which there has been an increase in natural disasters like famine , flood and earthquake.
Trees absorbing carbon dioxide collect dangerous carbon.
Trees planted in one hector absorb six tons carbon dioxide every year.
It is necessary for this earth and the creatures dependent on it that jungles increase fast.
By the process of transpiration its roots absorb water from the ground in such high quantities that the danger of water level dropping arises.
Acacia tree which is famous by the name titled ' Tree of the poor ' grows very fast and its stalk is very hard by which it is suited for burning.
Its seeds give rise to its jungles in other places also by the process of dispersion.
Probably because of its qualities it is planted in waste unused land , watershed and slopes etc. places.
By putting pipes in the hills , as much loss this species has inflicted on the system of the nature there , that much no other has.
Because of this the balance of the cycle of weather has gone haywire.
So it is necessary that good plants should be planted so that environment stays unpolluted and our health stays fit.
Along with peepal all traditional Indian shady trees like neem , tamarind , paakad , blackberry , mango , banyan and quince have the ability to improve the environment.
Their fruits and leaves mixing with the ground improve its fertility.
Mango , neem , peepal , mahua etc. are regional and useful varieties for the flat lands of north India.
Shady and oxygen giving trees like peepal , banyan , neem , arjun and blackberry should be planted on the sides of the roads.
In agriculture forestry , for economic use , other than mango , guava , amla , for wood , planting of poplar tree is also in accordance with the environment.
Other than these big trees profitable from the viewpoint of environment and business , there are many such medicinal plants which are proving to be beneficial from the viewpoint of finance.
Medicinal and aromatic plants like basil , asparagus , chebula , aloe vera are effective in controlling the pollution of the environment.
Planting of good plants is necessary.
Along with planting of good plants , a system to take care of them also should be developed in which there is a system of auditing of tree planting with partnership of local people.
Keeping our environment clean , safeguard us from the dangerous outcomes of the change in climate and in their shade thousands of varieties of creatures may breathe.
For solution of the problem of pests and diseases in the crop of grains , one group of scientists of the university to know the problems toured Lekhipur and neighboring villages of district Udhamsingh Nagar , Gadarpur Development Area on 14 July , 2010.
Biggest infliction of the stalk borer insect was found in the crop , saying whose solution the scientists said that because in the lowland areas the summer crop of grains is being taken in large quantities the infection of the stalk borer insect is increasing while as in earlier years this type of problem was not there in the lowland areas.
For its solution the scientists advised not to encourage summertime crop of grain.
From the last 25 years due to the on going problem of termites the remote village of Lambadi of the Sealdah development area of district Almora is on threshold of becoming barren.
During this time insect repelling medicines related to the control of termites was sprayed in the village and 3 people from the village were given special training of the technique of spraying the medicine.
For the solution of the problem of termites , Gharda Chemicals , Mumbai made available insect repelling chemicals free of cost.
During the tour it was found that the areas in which farming of pumpkin class of vegetables is being done for many years continuously , in them , this problem is most serious.
For the solution of this problem scientists advised to adopt crop cycle and had discussions regarding other solutions with the local farmers.
Mushroom is a pure vegetarian edible item whose farming can be started inside the house with less capital.
In it , along with huge amounts of digestive protein , mineral salt , vitamins , necessary amino acids etc. nutrients , medicinal properties are also found.
In spite of being full of all these qualities its production is done by very less farmers while as the geographical conditions in district Champavat are very favorable for farming of mushroom.
In the training along with the technique of production , information of making special dishes of mushroom was also given.
Expectation is that in future other unemployed youths of the district also adopting this on a business scale will make it a means of self employment.
In the last quarter , total 3 trainings were organized by the State Agriculture Management and Extension Training Institute , Uttarakhand -LRB- sameti-Uttarakhand -RRB-.
For the members of the technical team at the development area level a training titled ' Animal Wealth and Dairy Management ' was organized on 12-14 August , 2010.
On the occasion of the inauguration of the training , Director , Extension Training and Sameti-Uttarakhand , Dr. Y.P. Dabbas referring to the geographical conditions of the hilly areas said that along with small a farmer can take care of his family properly by domesticating one or two animals.
He said that in hilly areas where 90 percent women do the work of grazing-feeding the animals , in such a situation , farmers need to be more alert towards animal husbandry.
For the members of the technical team -LRB- B.T. T -RRB- at the development area level , a training titled ' Training alertness needed for the master trainers' was organized on 26-28 August , 2010.
This is possible only when they are given correct and effective training.
A symposium on training assessment and problems of agricultural training was organized by the attendees.
This situation is not only in agriculture but also in all allied areas animal husbandry , fishery , sericulture , etc..
Farmers are experiencing difficulty in changing the traditional form of farming.
So for making alert the broadcasting employees , decentralization of decision power , production according to demand , domain business , including maximum agents in both private and public sectors in deciding the capability of the farmer community.
In broadcasting management participation of local people is needed , so good relations have to be established with them , their needs and hardships should be studied by which good co-operation of all the people at the local level can be obtained for the work of broadcasting.
For inspection of the broadcasting system and bringing uniformity in the programs , there is always a need for co-ordination within the broadcasting system.
These trainings that were organized were related to agricultural diversification , soil testing and refurbishing , poultry , durable farming and vegetable production and animal husbandry.
788 trainees were benefited by these trainings.
Most trainings were of three days to weekly.
The tourists obtained knowledge about the new agricultural techniques developed by the university and bought improved seeds -LRB- grains , vegetables and flowers -RRB- and plants -LRB- fruit trees -RRB- and agricultural technology literature.
In October for controlling tikka disease in groundnut spray mencozeb at the rate of 2 kg or zineb 75 percent soluble powder 2.5 kg per hector mixing in water.
For controlling sudion in soyabean , spray indosulphan at the rate of 35 e.c of 1.5 litre amount mixing in 1000 litre water per hector.
Definitely finish the sowing canola and mustard in the first fortnight of October.
In the hilly areas sow red lentils from mid October to first week of November.
To prevent root borer insect in peach , plums and apricot , making a solution of chloropyriphos -LRB- 4 m.l.  10 litre in water -RRB- irrigate in saucers.
Uttarakhand state is very useful for agricultural diversification from the geographical and ecological viewpoint.
Here there are many opportunities of growth in areas like unseasonal vegetables , horticulture based business and livestock.
In Uttarakhand because agriculture suitable land is less , animal husbandry is important from the viewpoint of business and employment.
Other than this , sheep , goat , angora kids and chicken rearing are beneficial businesses which are not proving to be beneficial due to unscientific ways of operation and other reasons.
From animals other than getting milk , ghee , meat , wool , eggs , we get animal power for working on the farms.
In keeping the animals healthy , animal fodder has a large contribution.
Hilly farmers know some things about balanced animal fodder.
But because of geographical disparity most farmer brothers are not able to produce crops of green fodder and animals do not get filling fodder.
Very few farmers are such who understand the importance of mineral salts in animal fodder.
So very little amount of mineral salts reach the bodies of the animals eating this fodder , while as mineral salts are very necessary for various bodily activities.
Mineral salt mixtures in the form of brick shaped lumps are found in the market which can be kept in the enclosures of the animals.
Other than this animal rearers also have to pay special attention to diseases of the animals.
When animals drink water from the pits , waterfalls or river or eat the grass grown near by them then above said insects enter the stomach , intestines or liver of the animals.
So offer them clean water and let them graze in a good place.
Prevention of all these outer or inside parasites in animals is very necessary.
Only then your animals will stay healthy and farmers can get more benefit from them.
In the hilly regions , lack of drinking water and water for irrigation , has come forth in the form of a serious problem.
Due to increase in average temperature and annual offering of jungles in bigger areas to fire , the cover of vegetation is getting destroyed.
We will have to do restoration of naturally available streams and holes so that availability of water for farming continues by which ground water gets recharged , as a result level of water table will not go down.
Due to desertion by non use of plough in the farm land , land is becoming hard and barren.
Increase in bio constituents in agricultural land is possible by fertilizer of decayed dung and leaves and wormy compost etc..
Such a land has better capacity to retain rain water and moisture stays for long.
This collected water can be put to use in a situation of drought for irrigation of crop -LRB- irrigation by drip process -RRB-.
In this way if all the departments in the region also together making a long term plan implement these programs then undoubtedly increasing the yield , -LRB- they -RRB- will be able to stop the agricultural land from being barren and along with that will be able to protect the environment also.
Under the auspices of Broadcasting Training Directorate , the famous 89th All India Farmers fair named ' Krishi Kumbh ' and grand organization of agricultural production exhibition was done in the premises of the university on March 9-12 , 2011.
Along with that , it was said , to reduce the efforts of women in the region giving of useful agricultural equipments and more attention to be given to increase the production of milk and meat.
Dr. Singh said that in the 12th five year plan sending lead farmers of the country abroad information on new techniques will be given.
Dr. Singh also expressed necessity of sowing crops of quick time varieties of green gram , black gram and cowpeas along with sugarcane to increase the yield of pulses crop by which along with yield , fertility of the soil will also increase.
Calling the big grains sown in Uttarakhand and other regions as crop of the future , he urged the scientists to increase its yield capacity from now only.
He also said about doing efforts by the university for encouraging environment friendly farming along with expanding collective farming.
In the fair , along with various colleges of the university , national and international firms putting up stalls exhibited farming related products and techniques.
For the entertainment of the farmers everyday evening cultural programs were also organized.
Other than this , through the stalls of various nationalized banks and insurance companies , information about loans for farmers and other useful schemes was also given.
Praising the various varieties especially corn , wheat , sugarcane , paddy etc. developed by the university , he said that due to the efforts of this university only today the country is replete with food.
Along with 9000 registered farmers almost 42 , 000 visitors toured the fair.
Small pieces of fast growing plants are cut and those which become an year old are called slips.
The pieces which have roots are used for transplantation.
The tough wood of the stem and dry leaves are cut.
It is appropriate to use clean and healthy pieces.
The holes build in the farm should generally have slips with two roots.
This plant grows well in moist place but it gets harmed if the water stays in the roots.
The farming of citronella does not reduce the fertility of the farm but there is considerable increase in the growth of both grass and oil a little bit of chemical fertilizer is mixed with manure.
Before the harvesting the weeds should be properly removed from the farm.
The oil reduces if the harvesting takes more than three months, the reason is that leaves become partially dry.
The leaves should be cut early morning.
The rainy season plants shouldn't be cut.
The plant stems should be cut right above the point of growth.
The plants should be cut from beneath once in a year so that dry leaves come out and the bushes remain at proper height.
The leaves are dried a bit to remove excess water.
The drying of the leaves depend upon the intensity of sun and atmospheric conditions.
It is beneficial to keep them in shade for a day.
The leaves are dried on rack in the humid climate so that there is no attack of mildew and fermentation.
The oil production keeps fluctuating in every season, Also soil fertility, agricultural conditions and distillation method play a great role.
The quantity of oil keeps decreasing depending upon the age of the crop in commercial production.
Generally 4-5 years of cultivation in a field are beneficial from economic perspective.
Further, re-transplantation is required.
Cymbopogon martini is a plant of bal gramini family.
It is also known as rosha grass or motiya.
Its another variety is sokia.
Which is also known as ginger grass.
Its oil is even poor than motiya.
The artificial creation of Geraniol has been done and it is being soil in the market, therefore there is reduction in export.
At first motiya was cultivated in Punjab in 1924.
Palmarosa is a multi year perfumed grass.
Good drainage loamy soil is required for this.
Such land where there are means of irrigation and 150 c.m annual rainfall is appropriate for palmarosa.
It cannot be cultivated well in foggy regions.
Being aromatic is a good quality of oil.
Oil quality becomes inferior if weeds come while extracting oil.
Therefore it is essential to remove weeds from the farm.
Every part of the plant has oil.
The flower has the maximum oil content.
The maximum oil from the plant can be extracted at the time of flowering.
This is the appropriate time for harvesting.
Palmarosa farm gives crop for 8 years.
But the production reduces after 4-5 produce.
Palmarosa should be dried for sometime after harvesting and fresh grass should be quickly distilled so that the quality of oil persists.
Though the new variety " Pusa Basmati 1509 " developed by Indian agricultural research organization Pusa, New Delhi for increasing the production of Basmati rice has not yet been issued at national level but wit the help of Punjab government this variety has been issued by the organization.
This variety of rice will be named " Pusa Punjab 1509 ".
Has not been given the status of Basmati: Agricultural scientists are excited on its introduction into Punjab but they are worried because it has not got the status of Basmati on technical parameters.
Actually the central government gives this status to a variety when that Basmati producer is appropriate for production is every region.
The genetics department of the institution has developed the new variety in the form of " Pusa Basmati 1121 ".
This is the highest producing variety of Basmati in the country but " Pusa Basmati 1509 " has been developed because of the bakanae disease.
The scientists say that this variety is appropriate for all the Basmati producing regions but this variety could not be issued at national level as the rice research directorate(DRR, Hyderabad)did not encourage it.
The institution contacted Delhi government and Punjab government at local level.
A meeting could not be held in this department of Delhi government because of which it was released early in Punjab.
The director of the institution Dr. H.S. Gupta said that the farmers are given one kilogram of packets of seeds in Punjab.
While the head of Genetics department Dr. Vinod Prabhu said that this variety will be prepared 20 days early than other varieties.
This will save water.
And the produce will be equal to " Pusa Basamati 1121 ".
Its rice is better than 1121 therefore the exporters' organization has also accepted it.
Takhana and Padhana are two small villages of Karnal district.
Majority of the farmers here grow tomatoes.
They have become so skilled in this talent that the farmers from far-flung areas come here to learn.
Not only this the money lenders who hesitated in giving money to the farmers are now compelled to buy goods from their village.
The money lenders of UP also come here to buy vegetables.
The farmers of the village do not want to indulge in the wheat-paddy cultivation because of other vegetables other than tomatoes.
Farmer Ramdas and Vikram singh said that in 1986 some farmers heard that a farmer near Jhajjar is growing tomatoes worth millions of rupees.
When the farmers went to see the farm we also liked that idea.
We thought that if a farmer can get so much profit on an undulated ground near Jhajjar, then why can't we do it?
And this persistence turned up their destiny.
Initially they started to cultivate tomatoes on some acres of land after which they never looked back.
Farmer Man singh, Naresh Kumar, birju, Ghanshayam, Praveen,Banwari and others say that initially people hesitated to lend money to the farmers of this area but after starting the cultivation of tomatoes and vegetables they do not even need it.
At around two thousand acres of land of both the villages, tomatoes are cultivated twice a year.
The grading and packing of goods begin as soon as the farmers reach the market in the evening with their produce.
The farmers from other states have also started holding their foot in the villages of Chattisgarh.
The farmers of Haryana and Punjab have particularly bought these lands for cultivation.
This progression endlessly continues.
At Some places they have possessed small holdings while at other places they have large holdings.
When Bhaskar investigated it then he came to know that Ajit Singh, the union civil aviation minister and Rashtriya lokdal chief who lives in Bagpar, Uttar Pradesh has also bought land in Berla block of Bemetara district.
In 1990 he bought land on his name and again in 2006 he bought it on his son Jayant Singh's name.
Ajeet Singh is just a symbol.
Millions of farmers such as Gurnam Singh Tarar, Karam singh, Rajkumar Panghal, Ranveer singh from Haryana and Punjab have bought lands here.
Some are selling their ancestral land or arranging money to buy lands at different areas of the state.
Gurnam singh Tarar from Yamuna nagar, Haryana came to Chattisgarh in 2006.
Along with his brothers he bought 108 acres land in suhaila, Balauda bazar.
He is getting 600 tonnes paddy, 800 tonnes wheat and 22 thousand tonnes sugarcane produce from this land.
There is a mango orchard in 13 acres of land.
Kurukshetra's Karam singh bought 42 acres of land in Khapradih and Sarseni in the year 2000.
He is cultivating paddy, wheat and vegetables with his three brothers.
The CAG report has given a blow to the central government who patted its back with the growth of one and a quarter million crore rupees in agricultural debts in 2013-14 general budget.
According to the CAG report presented in the parliament, it investigated 90,576 accounts out of the total number of accounts.
Out of the them there were faults in 20,242 accounts.
As per this calculation one can say that there were irregularities in 22.34 % matters.
In the investigation it was found that many farmers who did not deserve it were freed from debts while many deserving farmers did not get its benefit and the banks dismissed their claims.
CAG has also found evidences of tampering with documents and presenting fake documents.
CAG has reprimanded the department of financial services for not monitoring the debt exemption properly.
In order to release the farmers from institutional debts the government had implemented agricultural debt waiver and debt relief scheme, 2008.
Under this 3.69 billion small and 60 million other farmers were released from debt worth 52,516 billion rupees.
This scheme played a major role in re-bringing UPA into power.
Though the fresh CAG reports have brought the congress in unnatural situation which is busy preparing for general elections but the fake game in agricultural loans has started right after UPA came into power when agricultural loans were increased and interest rates were cut.
For example in 2004, agricultural loan worth 86,000 billion rupees were allocated which increased to 5,75,000 billion rupees in 2011-12.
For the past eight years there was not only six time increase in agricultural loans but more loans were allocated as compared to other years.
81 % small and marginal farmers hardly got 5% loans.
Big farmers, business and industrialists got the rest of the cream.
The agricultural loan(32,400 billion rupees) that Delhi and Chandigarh got in 2009-10 was even more than the total agricultural loan(31,000 billion rupees) provided to Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal and Jharkhand.
It was done by bringing changing in the definition of agricultural loans so that the loan given to business associated with agriculture and concerned activities, industrialists, governmental institutions etc are also brought under the boundaries of agricultural loans.
Not only this the share of co-operative institutions which are considered to be the friends of farmers in agricultural loans reduced to 12 % from 62 % in the year 1993-94 to 2009.
Thus the regional rural banks started giving priorities to benefit after reconstitution.
The consequence was increased dependence of many farmers on money lenders and small loan institutions which ultimately became the reason for farmers' suicide.
According to the National bureau of crime records, 2,90,470 farmers committed suicide during 1995-2010.
During April-May for new crops farmers mostly need the loan because they have to arrange from seeds and manures before monsoon.
Thus as a norm during these two months of the financial year more agricultural loans should be allocated but the figures of NABARD speak a different story.
According to this during April, 2009 to January, 2010 agricultural sector had a debt of 3 lakh crore rupees but by March, 2010 it directly rose from 5 lakh crore to 8 lakh crore rupees.
And in the next month it again became 3 lakh crore rupees.
The NABARD chairman himself believes that during kharif season the farmers should take 50-60% loan but there is no relationship of general season of the crops between the allocated loans and their repayment.
D. Subbarao, the governor of reserve bank has accepted that the agricultural loan for subsidy is being used in other works.
As a result despite allocating more loans than the declared goal, the dependence of farmers on money lenders is not decreasing.
During 2000-2010 there was 755 % increase in the loans given to agricultural sector but during this time there was merely an increase of 18% in agricultural produce.
According to Reserve Bank two factors are responsible for this.
The first is that while giving loans the banks give preference to big farmers because there is not much risk with them.
Since the farmers who return loan get loans merely at the rate of 4% therefore the big farmers get loan from the banks and give them to small farmers at the rate of 15-20%.
The figures of the finance ministry also testify it.
For example the share of small farmers in the total loans allocated in 2007 was just 3.77%.
During 2010-11 the loan given to agricultural sector increased 2.5 times and became 5,09,000 crore rupees but only 5.71% share went with the small farmers.
Secondly, the banks do not refrain from manipulating the accounts in order to reach the targets of agricultural loan in last two months of the financial year.
Clearly when small and marginal farmers are not getting loans then from where does the question of remittance arise?
In such a situation not only in remittance of debt but there is scam in loan allocation also before which scams like national games, 2G spectrum and coal gate seems to be small.
Seeing the bumper production of wheat in rabi season, the government is unable to breath because of the shortage of storage.
Majority of the government and personal granaries are flooded with the grains of last year.
The government can take the decision of exporting 50 lakh tonnes of wheat to vacate the granaries.
The committee of cabinet ministers of financial affairs will consider this proposal by food ministry on Thursday.
Agriculture minister Sharad Pawar said that only few weeks are left for the arrival of new season's wheat.
Seeing the dearth of granaries it is essential to take decision on this.
Pawar was talking to journalists after participating in the agriculture science fair.
It is not possible to store the wheat of new crop unless vacating the granaries for which sufficient granaries are needed.
Seeing the dearth of pulses and oil-seeds Pawar asked the agricultural scientists to develop advanced variety of seeds.
Due to less production of oil-seeds 50 % of edible oil demand is fulfilled with import.
The import dependence of pulses is also persistently increasing.
CCEA will consider the proposal on export of wheat.
Further, discussions on permitting the private exporters for exporting wheat will also be held in the meeting.
But only those private businessmen can get export permission who will export the wheat of government stocks.
Nodal agencies like MMTC, STC and PEC are also in the list of exporters.
The government has already given the permission of export worth 45 lakh tonne wheat to these agencies.
Out of which more than 20 lakh tonnes of wheat has been exported at the rate of 295-330 dollar/tonne.
The value for the export of wheat was decided by inter-ministerial committee under the chairmanship of commerce secretary S. R. Rao.
Punajb, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh where still the older stock exists will be mostly relieved by the the export relief on this extra amount of wheat.
On 1st February of Central pool, the granaries of these three states had a stock of 3.08 crore tonne wheat.
This essential stock is too much as compared to 1.12 crore tonnes.
Because of the huge increase in bumper production and governmental purchase the stock of wheat has greatly increased.
The goal of Rabi purchase beginning from April has been decided.
During 2011-12 the record production of wheat was 9.48 crore tonnes.
The production of wheat in the current season is believed to be 9.23 crore tonnes.
Eucalyptus is an ornamental tree with its unique bark, circular stem, extended branches and crown of leaves.
It was founded by Joseph Czech in 1770 which was received from the eastern coast of Australia during the first brave journey of Captain James in Pacific Ocean.
It was named Eucalyptus in 1770 by the French botany.
Its two words " U " means well and " calyptus " means which covers which is " lid of well ".
Its specialty is that while flowering a cap like structure is built on the buds.
Though this species originates from Australia but many of its species have been brought in tropical and temperate countries.
Some of these species yield best quality of wood and some other varieties are used in the preparation of industrial medicine and perfume industry for making best quality oil.
The use of Eucalyptus in perfume industry was done after the invention of aromatic oil (1882).
The trees are called colossal or mallige as per the nature and size of the trees.
Large size species such as U. K. ranges are world wide popular for tough wood.
Eucalyptus citriodora is a long and straight growing long lived tree which is 20 met high.
Later it grows soft leaves which are ornamental.
As compared to other crops, climatic conditions play a major role in preparing sapling by useful tree plantation from economic point of view.
Appropriate humidity along with moderate air temperature is good for its initial growth.
The seeds do not sprout until the temperature is not appropriate that is not much, nor too less.
The best sprouting takes place during mid February till April and the other is during July-November when the temperature is between 15-30 degree C.
The humid climate during July-September is also not good for sprouting because the death rate increases due to the fungal attack of several kinds and heavy rains also harm small plants.
The plant growth becomes moderate at less than 15 degree c and proportionately at zero degree C plants die.
U citriodora plants are very sensitive towards chilling weather and especially the small plants.
If the height of the transplanted plants is increased then the ability of tropical structures to resist force decreases.
Therefore in order to get good results the basic seeds should be properly monitored as per height while sowing during transplantation.
Acidic or saline soil which has some carbon elements is good for this.
Submerged and wet soil is not good for this, transplantation should not take place here.
Extremely dense humus rich soil is not essential for the nursery but while transplantation humus rich soil is extremely essential.
The land should be tilled twice-thrice and the raft should be properly run.
Lamellar cultivation should be properly tilled and irrigated after putting fertilizers.
If possible a handful of cow dung manure should be put in every pit before transplantation.
Its seeds are very small and 240 seeds weigh 1 gram.
Only thick and healthy seeds should be sown, dry, shrunk seeds should be thrown.
According to atmospheric temperature and humidity seeds begin to sprout within 4-14 days.
Either nursery should be prepared with an objective of growing commercial farming or it is appropriate to propagate plant by directly sowing the seeds in appropriate season.
The nursery should be established in high beds.
Permeable sandy soil is best for nursery while smooth and wet soil should not be used for this purpose.
While sowing one should be careful that the seeds are not sown more than 1 cm. deep and at an improper place.
The plants can be grown directly in the bags.
In every bag around 10 seeds are sown and are mixed into the soil and irrigated.
The plants thus grown are made light for 2-6 months according to the height.
This method is more convenient and useful than the conventional method.
The benefit is that the double expenditure on preparing the nursery in farms and then transferring them into the farms is saved.
Further the risk of plant death in bags is also not there.
After 2-6 months, seeing the climatic condition, when the plants grown in bags become 30 cm long are best for transplantation.
Cracks should be made in poly bags during this period or it should be completely removed and then the sprouts should be used for transplantation with mud balls.
One should not tamper the roots that they become too small and deep pits should be dug for this purpose.
It should be filled with soil all around and properly irrigated.
Delay in irrigation can lead to obstacle in growth and can reduce the condiment herb.
August-September is not good for transplantation in regions with extremely cold condition.
Once when the plants survive then they have the capacity to tolerate any kind of adverse condition in the coming seasons and are also able to tolerate the losses happening in winter.
Satisfying figures of a specific variety of fertilizer for Eucalyptus clan or U. Citriodora species have yet not been available.
While manures with nitrogen have proved to be helpful in its growth where remarkable growth in per unit area in oil quantity has been seen.
While there is no direct relationship between fertilizer use in leaves and growth in oil quantity.
No consent is given for its regular use until there is specific scarcity of these elements in the soil.
It should be kept in mind that there is adequate amount of oil in crop leaves and the weather should also be desirable.
Cloudy and rainy days are inappropriate for trimming.
6-8 months old plants should be taken for first trimming.
Although in this situation there is relative reduction in the amount of oil but frequent trimming can increase the growth of leaves.
The number of branches also increase which leads to incessant growth in production and this sequence continues in 3 year old plants.
First trimming should be 30-45 above ground and again it should be cut 75-90 cm above ground.
Generally three crops are taken from the plants so that more oil is obtained.
This condition is best during mid February, mid March, mid July and then at the end of October and beginning of November.
It gives an interval of four months for the arrival of new leaves.
After two years only one plant should be allowed to remain in every pit so that new branches and saplings get appropriate nutrition and place while growing.
Thin leaves are appropriate for distillation.
The herb should be passed through distillation process as soon as possible.
Leaves get dry while storing or gets rotten because of reversing. It reduces the oil extraction capacity.
One cannot suggest from economic point of view that leaves should be kept away from branches.
The leaves and soft stems should be in the proportion of 7:3.
The herb obtained from irrigated area yields an average of 200 ml oil while the oil obtained from non-irrigated area is 150 l.
Apart from oil one hectare of plant yields 11 tonnes of dry wood which is used in paper industry and it also gives fuel.
It should be carefully noted that immediately after harvesting the herb should be distilled so that there is no fear of oil evaporation and no qualitative loss during storage.
Oil floats on water after condensation and it can easily be separated from water.
Although Australia has quite good knowledge about multiple Eucalyptus diseases but there is not a serious problem in India yet.
At some places there is fury of termites.
If the land becomes dry for a longer period then the termite eats the roots and stem bark because of which the plants dies soon.
Crawling caterpillar eats the leaves of U. Citriodora.
In order to get rid of them from time B.H.C should be regularly sprinkled.
Fungal diseases also harm Eucalyptus.
The disease increases also because of the excess humus containing capacity of the land and in a single night the entire nursery becomes disease prone.
Cole tritium species also attack the leaves.
Apart from the above mentioned diseases some viral diseases reduce the size of leaves which is known as filodi.
In this the leaves become light red or yellow and other patches arise.
The plants that show signs should be immediately pluck and destroyed.
The perfumed oils obtained from them give the fragrance of camphor, peppermint, rose or lemon.
The oil is used in medicinal industries such as -anti-contagious, hygiene factor and fragrance industry etc.
Its increasing demand depends on the active element citronella present in it.
The major factor of the oil is in fact citronella.
The price of the oil will depend on the amount of citronella found in it.
Its oil is color less and sweet in taste.
The oil is mainly used in industries and hydroxy citronyl and menthol are prepared from this only.
The fragrance of insecticide and living factor elements can be increased by mixing a little amount of oil in it.
It is an effective substitute and supplement of Java citronella oil.
It is used in soap industry and in the preparation of cosmetics,
The wood of U. citriodora is used in making houses and in mines.
It is also used in paper making industry.
Erbal Moskam Maskotsalin is a plant of " malvesi " species similar to lady's finger.
The musk seeds are generally called " ambrit " seeds.
Its seeds smell like musk.
The seed cover yield extremely valuable oil.
The vaporized oil oil is called musk seed oil or ambrit seed oil which is used in high quality expensive perfume and tobacco.
This seed is extremely useful and there is great demand for them in overseas markets.
Its seeds have anti-infectious stimulus, cooling, nutritious, laxative and transpiration values.
During itching and snake bite the seed paste is mixed with milk and rubbed at the affected area.
National botanical garden, Lucknow has developed a new process to separate aromatic elements from the seeds.
During this process the fine powder of seeds are extracted with cold alcohol.
The recycling of percolator's battery yield " concentrated alcohol ".
It is cooled and aqueous alcoholic fraction is separated from ether.
The fraction when washed with dilute alkali yields perfumed absolute.
Later the solvent is separated.
The cooling process separates the sterile part from the absolute.
In India this seed is not cultivated at large scale.
Yet some amount of seeds is received from north, north-east and middle India.
Extreme chilly weather is most harmful for this therefore its farming is forbidden in cold regions during winter.
Around 1200-1400 ml.m rain is appropriate for it.
This plant grows well in loamy fertile soil.
The water should not stand in the land and the drainage should be proper.
15th June to 15th July is the best time to sow their seeds, though it can be grown in spring, summer or rainy season.
In order to get good crop, 25 tonnes of cow dung and 1.5-2 tonnes of ammonia sulfate per hectare should be put in the farm.
Until the beginning of rains, irrigation should be regularly done in January-February and March.
There is no need for weeding after the plants grow fully.
Mosaic infects leaves.
The monkeys also pluck and eat raw fruits and plants.
The rats eat ripe seeds.
Apart from them, no other diseases and insects have yet attacked Lucknow farms.
Though the epidemic of insects that eat stems seem to destroy this plant which destroys the stems.
Humulus Lupuluslin is a multi year climber plant of " moresi " species.
Which is commonly known as hops.
Its female plant is valuable for its inflorescence.
The inflorescence are used in bringing special fragrance and taste in liquor , making edible items tasty and keeping them safe for longer duration.
These specific characteristics found in inflorescence are because of the chemicals of lupulin glands present in their cones.
This part of inflorescence are considered to be hypnotic, nutritive and comfortable.
Currently hops are cultivated in around 20 countries from commercial point of view.
During the fifth decade of 20th Century there were around 6 liquor producing mills in India.
The hops requirements of these mills is met by importing them.
The requirement and consumption of hops in India is perpetually increasing because the development of liquor industry is sweepingly increasing.
Around more than 70 businessmen have been provided license for the manufacture of liquor.
In order to reduce the amount and value of import and become independent it is essential to develop its cultivation in Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh and its cultivation should be tried at other places also.
For the first time there were efforts to plant these crops in Dehradun which were obtained from Lord Auckland in 1840.
But because of heavy rainfall during the flowering stage, the cone and lupulin growth gets adversely affected.
Luther had suggested for the entry of hops in Kashmir in 1851.
It is also grown in Chamba(Himachal Pradesh).
Hops was of high quality and it received a medal during an exhibition in Amsterdam.
The commercial farming of hops introduced in Kashmir in 19th century was done by Kashmir horticultural department in Dobaga, northern Kashmir.
Shimla does not have appropriate favorable environment for the cultivation of hops yet there were efforts for cultivating it here.
Actually diseases and insects do not harm hops in Shimla.
In India hops are nowhere cultivated at commercial scale.
Hops is sensitive towards light and their successful commercial cultivation could be only done in warm climate of tropical regions on both the sides of 34 degree latitude, Mediterranean.
Presence of such kind of climate and latitude is found at some places of Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh.
Soft loamy soil whose pH value is 6-8 is considered good for hops.
Hops is grown from seeds and stems.
The plants that grow from seeds take more time in flowering.
The flowers are less valuable.
Hops are only grown through stems for commercial farming.
The stems should be disease free.
The trimming of hops are essential.
The trimming begins during spring season.
The trimming is done using sharp knife.
Weeding should be done after trimming.
One should understand that it is the time to pluck when the flowers become light yellow-green and crisp, and easy to pluck.
In Kashmir the flowers get ready to be plucked during end of August till September.
The entire plucking should be done within 10 days after the flowers become mature.
Delay in plucking make flowers more crisp.
The regional research laboratory, Jammu made active programs for the study of cultivation, generation,chemicals, harvesting etc. of hops and began their work in Srinagar and Kashmir branch laboratories.
In this concern, different countries producing hops brought various species and prepared its germplasm.
The cultivation of some of its species is good in the climate of Kashmir.
Jasmine flowers have a special significance in Indian culture.
This plant is appreciated for its extremely fragrant flowers.
They are grown in all the tropical and subtropical regions of the world.
In India, its plants are found since ancient times but the origin is said to be some western country.
In south India Jasmine flowers are used in the manufacture of cream, soaps and cosmetics.
According to researchers in China Jasmine flowers are used as anti depressant in tea.
In Malaya its flowers are used to make coconut fibers fragrant.
There is a yellow saffron in their flower.
Which is used as a substitute to saffron.
The lotion prepared from their flowers are used to wash face and eyes.
Around 15 varieties of jasmine are found.
Which include single and double petal flower variety.
Which are known by different names in different parts.
Pearl Jasmine is a popular variety whose leaves are around 9 c.m. long and 6 c.m. wide.
The flowers are around 3 c.m. wide in Lucknow's climate which has four layers of petal.
Arabian Jasmine " Their plants are bushy and flowers are white and fragrant.
Their flowers are available in north India from April-June.
Kahmir Jasmine : Their bushy plants have been quite successful on unproductive land.
They have proved to be quite fertile.
April-June is the time for flowers in north India.
Jasmine also requires good fertile loamy soil.
They grow well in open and sunny areas.
Jasmine is only grown through stems and pressure.
Trimming is quite essential because it hugely impacts flower production.
Irrigation should be stopped before trimming.
Old, dry branches should be removed by cutting.
The trimming should be done 45 c.m. from above.
Borazine paste should be applied on the branches after trimming so that they do not catch fungus and insects.
The jasmine flower petals are fragrant due to the presence of volatile oils.
The fragrance begins as soon as the flower opens.
Gundumali variety is best for concrete.
The jasmine concrete are less popular abroad.
The entire method of extracting concrete from 3 kgs of Jasmine flowers every time have been found in Tamil Nadu agricultural University.
These plants grow as shrubs up to 1500-4200 m height towards west in Himachal Pradesh.
sometimes they are also seen in the form of small trees.
The bark is like red-brown paper patches.
This plant is extremely transforming and its multiple physical and garden varieties are found.
During March-April the plants start flowering and fruits ripe next year during August-September.
Birds eat its fruits in natural condition and help in spreading their seeds.
Juniper fruits have gin like smell and the taste is like colophony oil which later becomes bitter.
The fruits are sometimes used in distilling gin and edible items and some sometimes for eating.
The fruits are widely used in making liquor in European countries.
Dry fruits of Juniper are sold in north India.
Juniper oil is extracted by vapor distillation of ripe fruits.
0.8-1.6 % of oil is extracted as per the quality of distilled fruits.
The oil extracted from raw green fruits is of inferior quality and the oil of fresh ripe fruits becomes a kind of raisin.
Major part of the commercial oil is received as a byproduct of alcoholic distillation.
They do not have natural oxygenated smelling compounds.
Juniper oil is clean colorless or yellow-green liquid.
Which has clinical fruit smell and sharp taste.
The oil when kept for long gives sticky and colophony smell.
Juniper oil is mostly used in integrated taste aroma of integrated gin and nutritional medicines.
Refined oil has high quality flavor.
Duplicate juniper oils are also manufactured.
The left over fruit polks are used to feed animals.
The ashes contain potassium and calcium in abundance.
All the parts of juniper trees contain vaporizing oil.
The tree also ejects certain kind of chemical.
Which stands at the bark.
Its confusing senderak is considered equivalent to glue.
Shining yellow oil is extracted from top branches and needles(20 degree F, 0.8531),(availability 0.15-0.18%), which has specific aroma of juniper oil.
Commercial juniper wood oil is generally prepared by distilling juniper wood, branches with colophony oil.
Mostly it is the mixture of colophony and juniper oil.
It is generally found in small size and used in making hedge, beams and used as fuel.
Juniper grows well in sandy and loamy wet soil.
It can also grow in graveled and rocky land.
Its plants are prepared by locking stems on seeds, stems etc.
The seeds are able to grow for years.
After sowing the sprouting takes around one years time.
The plants start flowering during April-May and fruits ripe during August-September.
Oil cab be extracted from all the parts of the plant but oil is extracted mainly from the ripe fruits.
The rate of its fruit oil is overseas countries is around 9000 Rs/kg.
Indian juniper grows in scattered form in low rainfall regions, dry stones or graveled land.
It grows densely only in favorable wet soil with shade.
The plant starts flowering during spring and bear fruits next year during September-October.
This tree contains a chemical which spreads particularly in dry stones therefore it can stand even in storms but at open spaces these trees become dwarf and stiff.
It can remain both dry and wet.
It can even tolerate lowest of temperatures.
The growth level can be exceeded in extremely favorable conditions.
The trees get harmed due to loss of bark but wood fungus, fomes juniperinus saccardi and sido attack them.
It is difficult to get clean wood but if found it is easy to cut them.
Generally their wood is stiff and it causes difficulty in cutting.
It can be easily refined.
The wood is mostly used in making pencils.
After testing all Indian woods, they have proved to be best for this purpose but we do not get as much wood as we require.
The wood is used in building construction, in making sticks and bowls and such other works.
They are also used in the form of fuel and coal is also prepared from them.
This oil was used at the place of juniper oil during second world war.
In order to make them aromatic we should remove pinine out of it because it smells like colophony.
Levendula ofisenilis lin is a permanent bushy plant of " leviati " family.
It has almost 28 species and multiple hybrids too.
There are several species of lavender which grow at different places.
The lavendula officinalis is found from Mediterranean sea till Kashmir.
The leaves are hairy, long and green colored.
The stems are straight and flowers appear on branch free free stems in bunches.
The flowers are light purple in color.
Oil is extracted from these flowers.
Bees linger on the flowers to collect honey.
Lavender is a valuable oil and it was not yet produced in India.
Therefore it was imported from abroad for use in Indian perfume business.
Lavandula is a temperate plant and it grows on those places which are cool and where the climate is cool even during summers.
Its roots are quite deep.
Therefore it can even grow on sloping hills.
Lavender grows well in Kashmir.
It needs light loamy sandy soil rich in calcium.
Lavender is circulated in three ways.
From seeds, stems and by separating the roots of plants.
The yield of 10-12 year old farms decrease and plants deteriorates.
Therefore it is essential that the plants are again revived.
Doing this is easy during November-February when the plants are dormant.
During this time the plants should be trimmed at a height of 4-5 c.m above the ground and the fertilizers should be properly provided so that the plants grow quickly and give good yield.
The plants grow soon in lower warm valleys.
Harvesting should be done when 75-90 % of the flowers appear.
Harvesting should not be done during fog and rains, it should be done in dry weather.
12-14 c.m long stems with flowers should be cut.
The branches do not have oil, only flowers have oil.
The amount and quality of oil in lavender depends on fertility of soil, harvesting, storage at proper time etc.
The oil is extracted from fresh flowers through vaporization.
The flowers should not be stored for too long.
The obtainment of oil from the flowers depends on appropriate climate, timely harvesting, proper transportation at vaporizing place and total vaporization.
Fresh flowers give 0.7-0.9% of oil.
Shere Kashmir " This species starts giving crop from the second year itself and gets ready 12-15 days early from the karlo species.
It has more flowers and gives more oil.
96 kgs. of oil is obtained from 1 hectare.
Efforts are on to make high quality species now.
Lavender can be successfully grown on the hills of U.P.
Matrikeria Kamomila is a plant of " compositi " species.
Its white flowers have mild fascinating fragrance.
Its oil has chamomile and alolis elements which are used in medicines.
The flower soup has proved to be useful for patients with stomach ailment.
They are also used to lighten hairs.
Its dry flowers are spread in room to spread aroma.
A fraction of oil is also used in the solution to be used for bathing which leads to freshness and peace in human body.
Its oil is also used in arthritis, stomach piles and cramps.
This oil is mostly used in several kinds of mild fragrance of lavender which is fascinating.
It is also used in liquor.
It is used in giving fragrance to soaps that is why there is a great demand for its oil.
It proves that it is among one of the very expensive oils.
The liquor producing farms of our country also imports it from abroad.
It is planted in European countries like France, Yugoslavia, Hungary etc.
This plant can be properly grown at a height of 200-700 metre.
It can tolerate extremely cool weather.
It can be grown properly in smooth and loamy soil which has good amount of bio manure.
It cannot grow in highly alkaline soil but they grow well in alkaline soil with 9-9.5 pH value.
It has been known through the tests of Bathra, Research Center, Lucknow that this plant has the capacity to absorb salt.
It proves that this plant is useful for alkaline soil.
The seeds can be directly sown into the farms.
For this it is essential for the farm to be extremely moist.
After properly removing the roots of kharif crop, the farm should be properly tilled.
If there is less moisture in the farm them they should be planted.
After two years to testing it has been proved that flower production increases with the amount of nitrogen and phosphorous.
Hence chemical fertilizers should also be used.
It is also seen that the amount of chimozalin increases in oil.
Crop cycle is essential for good production of any crop.
The plants start flowering from the second week of March.
It is good to delay its plucking in the first week so that during harvesting there is abundance of complete flowers.
They always have buds and complete flowers therefore while plucking only complete flowers should be plucked.
More flowers are obtained during second and third spring.
A human can everyday pluck up to 3-8 kg flowers.
6000-7000 kg flowers are obtained from 1 hectare area.
There is 65-75 % moisture in the flowers and 0.2-0.8 % oil is extracted.
The amount of oil decreases if the flowers are not dried properly after plucking.
Thus the flowers should be spread and dried in plain and clean surface in layers in shade.
The flowers should be never dried in excess heat.
The flowers in Lucknow catches insect during rainy season which eats and harms the flowers.
After the last plucking of flowers the the plant should be allowed to stand in farms for the farm seeds and care of the plants should be taken.
All the flowers should be plucked and dried when the flowers become yellow.
Mentha orvensis is a plant of " leviati " species which is of Japanese origin.
In India it was first planted in Jammu & Kashmir in 1952 and it completely adjusted in Indian climate.
Nowadays it has become a plant of best economic importance in many states.
Japanese mint can be easily identified because of these characteristics.
It is a creeper which grows through roots on nodes in the earth on the ground.
There are white patches on stems, leaves and corolla.
The leaves are like spears whose other side is triangular teeth shaped.
Menthol grows well in several kinds climate.
Low height tropical regions are considered best for its cultivation.
This crop grows well in continuous adequate rain areas but good sun little rainfall is beneficial during harvesting.
The crop is grown through best method of vegetative propagation.
It gets accomplished by underground runners.
They should be chosen from healthy plants which are free from gerui disease.
If it is essential to keep the saplings for some time then they should be kept in wet sacks and properly covered with soil.
It keeps planting ingredients in good condition.
The plants can also be grown through sowing.
They are grown in nursery beds.
The plants should be sown in only those beds which have fresh, fertile soil full of carbonic elements.
In north India sowing is done during January-February.
The runners should be kept together or their heads should be attached with each other and covered with soil.
The runners can be spread more with the help of plants arising out of underground sack saplings sown in farms.
Now farmers love to sow using transplantation.
Menthol can also be planted after the harvesting of wheat or potato.
The transplanted crop gives more and good produce for next year's transplantation.
It needs more irrigation.
There is no need for irrigation in rains if there are timely rains.
The flower quality is good and the crop also grows well if irrigation is done right after plantation and harvesting.
For more profit from economic point of view, weeding and deep tilling using tillers should be done during last week of April.
Special care should be taken while crop harvesting because of improper cutting leads to reduction in amount of oil.
The number of cutting every year according to the climate should be 2-3.
The time when the plant is densely spread is good for solution and more amount of oil Harvesting should be done during this time.
If the cutting is done on time then the amount of menthol decreases and if there is delay in cutting then also the the amount of oil decreases due to drying of leaves.
During the beginning of infection, dead patches appear on underground saplings which later become dark brown and finally lead to rotting.
The leaves turn yellow and later get destroyed by drying.
The infected plant should be removed from roots and destroyed.
Sowing ingredients should not be taken from infected farm.
Mint plants should be planted at the lines in order to stop water logging.
The plants to be planted should be chemically sterilized.
Total prevention has not been identified yet.
Khua disease:- It occurs due to a fungus named yaksinia menthipers.
The first symptom of disease occurs during spring which shows stem swelling , curling , drying of leaves etc.
Bacteria make brown round patches on the leaves of mint plants.
The leaves curl and turn yellow when uradia is present on the leaves and later fall turning brown.
Uradia leads to tilia during the beginning of autumn or winter.
Uktha disease:- This disease generally begins during summers.
The infection continuously spreads from one plant to another and from one farm to another.
This disease spreads during irrigation water and infected underground saplings during plantation.
Crop cycle does not affect it because fungus remains inside the ground for several years.
Termite attack mint plants when the farm is not moist.
Termite attack increases with little irrigation.
Caterpillar eating leaves and insect curling leaves(singaemia akerfatsil) harms mint.
Recently some discoveries have been made in this direction under which anti weeds chemicals are used but the right solution is crop cycle.
Potato or wheat crop should be sown after mint during August-September.
This crop ripens during March.
Then after maize is sown, it gets ready in three months and then paddy is sown.
It is harvested during November so that mint should be grown again in January.
The profit can be increased more by growing potatoes after second harvesting of mint.
The farmers get profit by menthol cultivation but the profit can be more by growing new varieties.
Shivalik:- This is a Chinese plant and has so much of oil and menthol.
Himalaya:- This is a new developed species of menthol.
The cleansing point(CP)and amount of menthol found in oil determine the price of menthol.
As a result of increase in menthol oil and production of menthol during last decade, not only the internal demands were met but India also started exporting it.
Thus the menthol producers of India have occupied around 30-40% market in 1992-93 as compared to China which has now increased to 80-90%.
Menthol crystal of grains are made out of menthol oil after distillation which has great demand in both national and international markets.
These grains are of two kinds- " plaque " and " bold ".
Bold grains are more significant in terms of both taste and fragrance.
The left over mentholized oil after separating the menthol grains is either sold as it is in the market or other elements like tarpin, menthon and liquid are made from them.
Currently only two states Uttar Pradesh and Punjab are growing menthol at large scale.
For the last 25-30 years Uttar Pradesh has been successfully doing menthol farming.
The regions where menthol is cultivated fall under subtropical climate.
There are several states of India where subtropical climate is available such as Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Haryana and Punjab.
Menthol can be successfully cultivated on the basis of soil and climatic conditions and availability.
You know that while cultivating the first thing that should be looked upon is the land type and its reform.
The land where cultivation is carried is of seven kinds.
Sandy land:- The land where sand and other elements are in the ratio 3:4 or the land which has 10-20 hundred portion of smooth soil is called sandy soil.
Clay loamy soil:- It is also called smooth soil.
The land which has three part of smooth soil and one part of other elements is called smooth soil or clay loamy soil.
Loamy :- The land which has half of sand and more than half smooth soil is called loamy soil.
Sandy Loamy- The land which has more than half of sand and 20-40/hundred portion of smooth soil is called sandy loamy soil.
Clay Soil- The land which has 85-95/hundred smooth soil and rest of the elements are sand is called clay soil, dakar or smooth loamy soil.
Barren- The land which is never tilled and sown is called barren.
Such land is very dry.
They can also be used for cultivation if regular hard work is done.
They are also known as Padti kadeem.
Sterile- Nothing can be grown in such land.
They contain more of alkaline.
Generally not even grass can grow in this land.
This land can also be fit for cultivation if hard work is done.
Excreta manure is really golden manure.
The effects are amazing.
It makes barren lands, fertile and cultivable.
It completely removes useless trees and shrubs.
You must have seen that the surrounding crops of village where people excrete is always green.
It gives more yield as compared to far flung farms.
China is the first to move forward in this concern.
Prof. King of America has written a significant volume named " Farmers of fourty centuries ".
He has shown that despite continuous cultivation for the past 4000 years the fertility of the soil is still intact there.
The reason is that the country doesn't wastes even a handful of excreta.
The toilet excreta is sold through contract in cities.
Then manure is made out of them and then they are provided to the farmers.
The farmers use them in their farms.
Therefore the condition of agriculture in China is better than all the countries of the world.
Belgium and France have understood the significance of excreta and urine manure much before.
In order to remove the bad smell from them in France either coal ash or sulfuric acid is added.
Later it is dried in heat and then used as manure.
Excreta and urine manure is even used in England.
There the excreta and urine is dried and in order to remove the bad smell a bird called guano is put in it and then the manure mixture is used.
India has around 32 crore villages.
On an average a person everyday consumes 1.5 or 2 ratal grains.
As per this calculation around 60-62 crore ratal grains in a day is spent from entire India.
If the rate of this grain is at least counted as 20 ser every rupee then every year the entire India requires grains worth Rupees1,80,0000000.
Further a lot of grains of India is also sent to abroad.
This is o say that if we do not count the grain that is exported then also every year we get grains worth 1,80,0000000 rupees.
Excreta and urine is produced from a large part of grains consumed.
If we do not throw this excreta and urine and use them as manure then we can regain the health of the farm which is lost by excessive cultivation.
It is said that the fertility of Indian land is day by day decreasing.
The reason is that we take so many things from the land but we do not supply them with proper diet.
India has large number of Neem trees.
The small fruits that Neem bears are known as nimboli in Malwa and Rajputana.
Oil is extracted from these fruits only and the remaining oil cakes are used as manure.
The farm insects either soon get destroyed because of this manure or run away.
On an average of 10-20 tonnes of fruits are used.
Crops like potatoes etc. are benefited by the manure of this oilcake.
The oil cake of linseed is of two kinds.
on one side a tough part of linseed is attached and on the other it is separated.
The first one has less but the other one has more useful elements.
This oil cake has more of nitrogen part.
This oil cake is more nutritious than groundnut oil cake.
It has around 7% nitrogen.
The bad oil cakes are used as manure.
Otherwise they are more beneficial in feeding cattle than using them as manure.
There are several ways of providing green manure.
Crops such as san, wild neem,horse gram, antelope etc. are sown in farm and when they start flowering, they are tilled.
For green manure the sown crop is harvested and their heaps are kept and then a mixture of excreta and urine is put and then covered with 2 inches thick layer of soil.
It gets rotten and turns into manure within two weeks and then the manure is spread and allowed to cool.
This manure is spread in farms.
The leguminous plants like dhecha san, wild neem etc, sown in other farms are removed and planted during rainy season and they are mixed into the soil by tilling if they get rotten.
The crop sown in the farm are cut and planted and they are mixed into the soil if they get rotten.
Fish manure is not found at all the places.
A lot many fishes get washed away during floods and the dead remains of the fishes are seen at the river sides.
Majority of the fishes are dead among them.
The dead fishes are dried and powdered and they are put on to the roots of trees and covered with soil if required.
The production and quality of fruits increases due to fish manure.
The trees of mango, orange etc. bear sweet fruits if fish manure is put.
Fish manure is priceless for trees growing in orchards.
But religious Hindus would not like to kill any living being for any interest.
Bone manure is very useful.
But it is unfortunate that million tonnes of bones used for this purpose are sent abroad.
Small pieces of bones are put inside plant roots.
Nepalese put very small pieces of bones into the beds of fruit bearing trees and they say that the trees then give very sweet fruits.
Many agricultural scholars have known through their experience that bone manure makes fruits sweet, the number of fruits increase, they ripe early and the crop is saved from insects in the beginning.
But the tradition of putting bone pieces is not good.
Hence agricultural scholars prepare bone manure in three ways.
The first is bone powder( bone meal or rotten bone powder).
The second is burnt bone powder or bone ash(Bone black).
The third is bones boiled in acid which is also known as' super phosphate of lime '.
Professor Butni has written a significant volume named " use of useless elements '.
In this book he has described the value of elements that are washed in drains of all the major cities of the world.
It also has the description of Delhi.
He writes- The amount of nitrogen received from the dirty and useless elements flowing in the drains of this city with a population of 282000 is so much that it can give manure to a minimum of 10000 acre land and a maximum of 15000 acre land.
As per this estimation the usefulness of all the useless elements can be easily calculated and thinkers can imagine loss worth how many billions this country faces every year.
Lime is also an extremely significant manure.
Contemplating the literature of ancient Europe reveals that people of ancient Rome considered this manure essential for good yield.
It softens tough smooth soil and makes sandy and rocky land smooth.
It cleans the pores of soil and energizes the plants.
India leads the wheat producing countries of the world.
Except United states of America and Canada India produces highest wheat in the world.
During British ruled India , wheat was produced in 2 , 50 , 00000 acre land.
But the sad thing is that for the past 20 years in India there has been no sharp increase in wheat and significant difference in its production.
There has been amazing increase in the production of wheat in all the developed countries of the world due to scientific methods.
Countries like America , Canada , Australia produce thrice the amount of wheat that farmers of India produce in one acre.
The population of India is increasing rapidly and therefore its food problem is also getting more complex.
In such a situation it has become essential to increase the production of grains like wheat.
Further, wheat is being used more after world war.
It has increased the consumption of wheat in the country.
That is why several traders exporting goods to abroad say that very soon a time will come Indians will not only be insufficient in exporting their goods to abroad but they will also require to buy wheat for themselves from abroad.
Agricultural scholars say that if wheat is cultivated in India at large scale then its production can increase so much that it can very easily fulfill its requirement.
The reason for the lack of this product in India is that here agriculture is done using scientific methods.
Further the farmers have small farms here because of which farmers have to bear tenants expense and the production is also low.
Therefore the farmers here should cultivate on the basis of scientific methods using Chakbandi so that there is less expense and more production.
It has been seen that the places where farming is done using scientific methods has shown increased growth in production.
Farming was done using new scientific methods in shahjahanpur, as a result there was double increase in production.
Many experiments were done even in agricultural sector of Nagpur.
During 1883-84 an agricultural scholar named M. Fuler started exploring facts regarding manures used in wheat cultivation.
For the first two years there were some divine incidents because of which no results of their exploration was visible.
During 1885-86 there was lack of rainfall while sowing wheat and during December there were more rains than requirement and cool breeze also prevailed.
It led to wheat disease on the wheat crop of government farm.
It should be kept in mind that this disease was seen more on the places where artificial ammonium chloride manure was provided.
On the next year there was heavy rainfall during sowing and because of this the entire manure put in the farm got washed away.
Therefore no effect of that manure was seen.
Later experiments were carried on for several years.
From the last experiments done in Nagpur this thing is clear that nitrogen is an essential element for the farming of wheat.
Because of nitrogen manure they showed good results.
Because of combination of manure and irrigation there was more increase in the production of wheat.
On the wheat cultivation of Dumrao experimental area, Bihar, experiments with shora, sowdung and other manure were carried.
As a result of all these experiments, those manures put positive impact on the growth of crops which has more of nitrogen element.
With the combination of nitrogen manure and irrigation there was highest crop production.
Green manure gave good profit when there were good rains during sowing.
Amongst the spices, turmeric is Indian asset and it is known as the empress of spices because it is golden in color.
Turmeric provides attractive color to vegetables, pickle, sauce and other food items.
Pulses and vegetables look bad without turmeric.
India alone produces around 10 % of the total turmeric production of the world and in India turmeric is produced in Bihar, Orissa, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Kerela, Karnataka, Assam, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh.
In Bihar turmeric is cultivated in Champaran, Muzzaffarpur, Khagadia, Begusarai, Vaishali and Patna while in Uttar Pradesh it is cultivated in districts of Devaria, Siddharth Nagar, Gonda, Barabanki, Bahraich, Pilibheet etc. but farmers grow indigenous varieties whose production is low.
Thus it takes the time period of two crops.
The rate of turmeric seeds is 20-25 tonnes per hectare which is very expensive.
If a farmer does not have its seeds then he has to spend more on seeds.
Rhizome, leaf spot and blurred disease of turmeric are quite harmful which reduces the productivity of turmeric.
It has a deep impact on the production of turmeric during sowing.
From the research carried in Rajendra agricultural University it has been found that turmeric should be sown between 15th May to 1st June.
For good production turmeric rhizome should be sown at a gap of 20 c.m and they should be 5 c.m deep.
The distance between rows should be of 30 c.m..
Covering:- Right after sowing the farm should be covered with green leaves of rosewood.
The green leaves should be put at the rate of 12-15 tonnes/hectare.
From the research carried in Rajendra agricultural University it has been found that there is 45 % increase in the production if it covered with green leaves of rosewood.
Crop grows after 30-35 days of sowing.
The pure income per hectare can be increased by growing two interval crops during the time of turmeric crop.
Paddy sapling should be grown in the farm after turmeric.
Sapling grows ready in 25-30 days, they should be plucked and sown at intervals.
It gets ready by December which should be plucked for green pods.
By adopting double cropping system you can get 20,000 Rupees per hectare pure income.
Three layered cultivation of turmeric , maize and pigeon pea have been quite profitable.
Raw turmeric is used only after processing.
While at some places in India, the raw turmeric is properly washed with clean water and dried in Sun for 10-15 days after cutting them into small pieces, They are stored in tins when they are completely dry, And from time to time they are used by soaking them in water and grinding on stone or making their powder.
But the turmeric prepared by this method has lack of yellow color and aroma that is why this method could not become much popular.
The most popular method of processing raw bales of turmeric is boiling them and polishing them which is as follows.
Right after boiling, the utensil should be removed from the flame and bales should be put out of the utensil and spread on clean surface and allowed to dry.
The bales should be spread in a thin layer and these bales should be collected and covered using carpet during evening so that no dew falls on them.
Turmeric bales dries and becomes ready in 10-15 days.
Properly dried bales are very tight and make a cracking sound on breaking.
Properly broken bales should not have more than 8% moisture then only they can be stored for longer duration.
Long back polishing work was done by tying sacks on hands or feet or tying a piece of sandal of bamboo baskets and rubbing them.
This method required hard work and less turmeric could be polished in more time.
Now this work is done using hand or electricity driven drums for polishing.
The drum that runs through hand has a handle, and when it runs the rubbing of small pins made inside drums does polishing.
In 1 hour, 1 kg of turmeric is polished using this method while the drum that runs through machine polishes 522 kg turmeric in 8 hours by two men.
Since ancient times Indians have been using turmeric in pulses, vegetables, sauces, pickles and other food items for giving golden color and special kind of aroma to food items.
Indian food items cannot be prepared without turmeric and if at all they are made they look bad without turmeric and the taste is also poor.
The scientists of national food institution, Hyderabad have proved that turmeric has anti cancerous values.
Thus those who take turmeric in their diet everyday do not get cancer.
Perhaps because of these qualities of turmeric Indians have been using it in food since primitive times.
Because of the presence of effective anti bacterial capacity of turmeric it kills germs present in human body and makes the body free of skin disease.
Turmeric powder when mixed with milk cream and applied on face removes dark patches from skin and the face shines.
On the auspicious occasion of marriage in north India turmeric powder is mixed with yellow mustard and gram flour and applied on entire body to cure skin disease and bring luster to the body.
Turmeric is an ancient cosmetic medicine.
Till today innumerable people use turmeric in the form of medicine and curing multiple diseases.
The tradition of putting turmeric in pulses, vegetables, kadhi, Pulao, fish, mutton in food is perhaps because Cancer does not occur if they are used.
Because of the blood purifying values present in turmeric, its use purifies blood.
Putting one or two drops of raw turmeric in eyes immediately gives relief.
The application of turmeric paste cures skin disease.
Eating the mixture of turmeric paste and honey cures diabetes.
Applying a little bit of turmeric with pure ghee before bath glows skin.
Applying thick paste of turmeric at the place of scorpion bite removes pain and sprinkling turmeric powder on leech bite immediately stops bleeding.
India grows around 10% of the total turmeric of the world.
In India turmeric is grown in 1,17,700 hectare land.
Which gives 3,47,800 tonnes of turmeric.
Every year India exports 1895 tonnes of turmeric to other countries of the world.
Which gives foreign exchange worth 46.3 billion rupees.
India has more than 60 % participation in international market which is a matter of pride.
When we talk of spice in food then chilly comes up in the mind.
There is hardly a person on this earth who has not tasted chilly.
Chilly is not only limited to taste, it is also used in medicines.
Further, chilly is a good source of vitamin-A and many salts and minerals.
Now the demand for chillies and other stuffs have increased in foreign markets and because of their export valuable foreign exchange is being received.
Since they have great demand, therefore it they are cultivated properly then the production and profit will be more.
It is the time to grow chilly.
Some people have already grown chillies and some will grow them soon, Let us talk something about chillies.
In Bihar it is grown as cash crop but the production is very less.
The main reason of low productivity is less use of developed varieties and technologies by the institution.
The second reason of more production is growth of healthy seeds.
Therefore high land whose soil is light loamy should be chosen for nursery.
For sowing chillies on one hectare of land 2.2-5 met long and 1-1.25 met wide around 25 beds are required.
Before sowing the seeds in beds, compost or rotten cowdung manure at the rate of 20-25 tonnes per hectare should be used.
Good farm beds are essential for sowing.
For this soil turning or 2-3 times indigenous tillers should be used and plank should be run to prepare the farm for sowing chillies.
One need not say that for chilly plantation the farm should be such where water does not stagnates and which has light loamy soil of good fertility.
During the first tilling of farm, application of rotten cow dung manure at the rate of 20-25 tonnes per hectare is required.
Weeding is required for 2-3 times for controlling the weeds in Kharif crop of chilly.
Light tilling between the rows after 3-4 weeks of sowing develops more roots which puts a positive impact on them.
As far as irrigation is concerned, it depends on the condition of soil and rains.
If there are no rainfall during the top dressing of urea and if the soil lacks moisture then a light irrigation should be definitely given.
If two caps of a medicine named planofix is solved in 10 litres of water and sprinkled at the time of flowering then it stops the falling of flowers and fruits.
Several medicines are made from the capsesin of red chilly which are used in cold, throat infection and chest problems.
There is a saying that " red pepper is very useful but green pepper is more useful and black pepper is even better than them ".
The capsesin of red chilly is used in making anti boils powder and ointment.
The powder made from Capsicum is used in colouring light coloured food items like kadhi, potatoes, eggs, paneer etc. and making them attractive.
Cumin occupies a special place in our food.
Its use has become essential in various vegetables and different kinds of tasty pickles, jelly and sauces everyday.
Further they are also used to make some medicines.
Its popularity can be estimated from the fact that it is used in both vegetarian and non vegetarian food items.
Though cumin can be grown in all kinds of soil but such land which has good drainage system and more water holding capacity so that there is less use irrigated water is considered for it.
Sandy loamy or loamy soil is best for its production.
Large lumps are made in smooth soil because of which there is difficulty in doing levelled sowing.
As far as possible the land should be levelled so that there is no difficulty in irrigation and every plant gets equal proportion of water.
fuzerium qumenai is a fatal disease of cumin.
Entire crop gets destroyed in heavy epidemic.
Hence farmers become debtor.
Hence in order to get rid off this disease it is essential not to sow cumin for 10-15 years in the farm that gets this disease because the seeds of that disease remain alive during this time and there is possibility of crops getting destroyed.
Because the cure of uktha disease is impossible therefore the sown seeds should e treated with a fungicide named bevastine.
The nitrogen requirement for cumin crops depends on availability of irrigated water.
If there is sufficient irrigated water then 100 k.g of nitrogen per hectare is good for its production.
But if there is lack of irrigated water then it is useless to give more than 60 k.g nitrogen per hectare.
Generally farmers fill the beds with more water than required so that there is no need to do frequent irrigation, because of this majority of the water percolates in the deep layers of land and plants are unable to utilize them.
The reason is that the cumin roots do not reach much deep thus in order to get more and more production from a certain amount of irrigated water it is essential to reduce the per irrigation water amount and the number of irrigation should be increased.
It is clear how much water or irrigation is required for how much nitrogen.
If the land is well prepared then not much weeds grow in this crop.
It is mostly seen that along with cumin seeds many kinds of weed seeds are also available.
Amongst them is , a weedicide seed named " Jeeralu " similar to cumin.
Thus while buying seed one should carefully see that the seed should be pure and free from weedicide seeds.
Despite these precautions if some weeds grow then they should be removed using khurpi.
Two kinds of insects harm cumin.
One is termite and the other is aphid which is also called chepa.
While preparing the farm for termite control,properly putting 10 % B.H.C powder at the rate of 25 k.g per hectare reduces the effect.
For controlling aphid, the spraying of 0.03 % motasistoks or rogar solution three- four times at an interval of every week or 10 days after 25 days of sowing saves the crop from aphid.
Sowa is a Rabi crop.
It has more power to resist extreme cold.
Dry weather during flowering is beneficial for good seed production.
Sowa crop in north India needs three irrigation.
But in South India it is grown as non irrigated crop.
It can be grown both in light and heavy land.
It gives good yield in less productive land.
The better time to grow sowa is between October to November.
But the time between 15 October-15 November is best for more production.
In fact Sowa is also sown using sprinkling method but they should be sown in rows at a distance of 30 c.m..
Ashes or sand should be definitely mixed with the seeds so that more seeds do not fall at a single place.
Sowa crop gets prepared for spices by the mid of March.
It is a 130-145 days crop.
The plants turn yellow when the crop becomes mature and the grains become light brown colored.
During this time the plants should be harvested and dried in a shady place for 8-10 days and then beaten to get seeds.
The seeds should be cleaned and properly dried and stored in sacks.
8-10 tonnes of seeds are obtained from one hectare of land.
Ginger occupies a significant place among spices.
It is called Adarak is Hindi, Ada in Assamese, Bangla and Odia, Adu in Gujarati, Shunti in Kannada, Ale in Marathi, Adrak in Punjabi, Aardrak in Sanskrit, Allam in Telugu, Adrak in Urdu, and Inzi in Tamil and Malayalam.
But in English it is called ginger and its botanical name is gingiber afisinel.
It is a member of gingiberesi plant family.
Ginger is used in spices, pickles, sauces, pulses, vegetables and other food items to make them tasty.
Dry ginger is a main part of Ayurvedic medicines and a domestic medicine also.
Further Soth is a infallible medicine of cattle.
In India ginger is cultivated mostly in the area of Kerela, As a result the production is also highest.
The other ginger producing states of India are- Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram, Nagaland, Assam, West Bengal, Orisssa, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh.
Ginger crop is grown from rhizomes.
The plant bears adequate roots within 3 months of sowing and the plants establish their contact with roots and start getting other nutritious elements.
Very less changes occur in the chemical values of sown rhizomes within 3 months of sowing.
If we take out the seeds rhizome after 3 months of sowing then again we get 70-75 % weight of the sown seed rhizome.
That is 12.6-14 tonnes of seed rhizomes are received from 18- 20 tonnes of sown seed rhizome.
This process should be completed by mid August.
Due to lack of ginger in market during August, very good price is obtained.
Warm humid climate is favorable for the cultivation of ginger.
Its cultivation is successfully carried in places with 1500 m height above sea level.
Regular and excess rainfall is essential for its production.
Irrigation is required on scarcity of rainfall.
Simple rainfall from sowing till sprouting and regular and excessive rainfall at the time of plants growth and favorable dry climate at the time of harvesting is good for its production.
Manures and fertilizers are required in large amounts for good production of ginger.
During last tilling, rotten cow dung manure or compost at the rate of 25-30 tonnes per hectare should be properly mixed in the soil.
If it is not available then 2-3 tonnes per hectare of powdered neem pomace should be put.
At the same time 375 k.g single super phosphate and 240 k.g muriate of potash should be mixed into the soil.
If the soil is attacked by termite then aldrin (5%) should be powdered and mixed in the soil at the rate of 25 k.g per hectare and plank should be run.
By the research done on ginger it has been proved that the seed rhizome of ginger should be taken only from such crop which was not infected by any disease in the last year.
For good production only the healthy seed rhizomes whose weight is between 18-20 grams and which has 3-4 buds should be chosen.
The seed rhizomes should be treated with 0.5 % egelol or 0.1 % senreson solution for 3 and 30 minutes respectively.
Doing this destroys the mycilium fungus that catches seed rhizomes and hence healthy plants grow.
Seeing the number and growth of weeds in ginger crop and 2-3 times of weed destroying is required.
The first destroying of weeds should be done by hands after 45 days of sowing.
The second and third destroying of weeds should be done using khurpi after 60 and 120 days of sowing respectively.
Mixed farming: Maize, pigeon gram and andi's mixed cultivation is done with ginger but the density of mixed crops should be kept very low.
Mixed cultivation yields less production as compared to pure cultivation.
Ginger wheat crop system : Ginger should be tilled by mid December and wheat should be planted in the farm.
Agaat Ginger gives good profit in the market but less yield is obtained.
Ginger should be definitely sown between 15 May - 31 May.
But where there is no irrigation facility it should be sown after first rains.
Seed rhizome of 18-20 gram which has four healthy buds should be used to get more yield.
The seed rhizomes should be treated with a solution of 0.1 % seresan for 30 minutes.
Weed control and tilling are essential to keep the farm weed free during October-November.
A solution of zinc or iron should be sprayed on the ginger plants if they lack them.
Irrigation is extremely important if there is lack of moisture in the farm because ginger rhizomes grow during this time.
The growth of rhizomes stops if the soil is tough.
February-March : The crop starts turning yellow during this time and those who wish to keep the nodules for seed rhizomes should till the crop field during March and clean all the roots on nodules and the nodules should be treated for half an hour in a solution of 0.3 % Ditho indofil M-45 and dried in shade.
When the solution applied in the rhizomes dries then they should be kept in a shady balcony or kept beneath the tree by spreading paddy straw and again they should be covered with straw and then mud paste should be applied.
The ginger pile thus kept for seeds should not be opened before the time.
The piles should be opened when one has to sow the seeds.
Nadiya: It is West Bengal's high yielding variety of ginger.
It is cultivated in almost all the ginger producing states of India.
The amount of dry elements in this variety of rhizomes is 20.2 %.
Nadia variety gives 240-250 tonnes per hectare produce.
This variety is used in making soth and arka.
Rio-de-geniro: It is Brazil's variety of ginger.
It has less amount of fibres.
The amount of dry ginger is 18.6 %.
This is the best variety for getting extracts.
It can be grown in various kinds of ginger growing regions.
5.12 % fibres are found in this variety.
They give 230 tonnes per hectare yield.
Chayna: It is a Chinese variety of ginger.
They have 21 % dry ginger.
180-190 tonnes per hectare of Chayna variety is obtained from dry ginger rhizomes.
Jorhat: This is a popular Assamese variety.
It is cultivated in Shiv sagar district and in the surrounding areas of Golaghat.
Their production capacity is 175-200 tonnes per hectare and they give 21.4 % soth.
To prepare soth from ginger, the tilling of the crop should be done after 240 days of sowing.
The leaves dries by this time.
While tilling one should be careful as to not cut the rhizomes.
The roots and the soil on the rhizomes should be properly cleaned and washed with water.
The rhizomes should be put inside clean water for 12 hours if required.
Further the thin cover above the rhizomes should be removed with the help of sharp knives made from bamboo.
Long rhizomes give good soth and their price is also good in the market.
Their amount of moisture is less than 10%.
In order to make the soth more shining they are rubbed inside bamboo basket which removes the remaining cover and soil particles.
This process of preparing soth is called unbleached method.
There is one more method of preparing soth which is called " bleached method ".
After removing the cover the rhizomes are immersed in 2 % lime solution for 6 hours.
Then the rhizomes are taken out and allowed to dry and after 15-20 days of drying they are rubbed in bamboo basket to make them shining.
The soth thus prepared is more white in colour.
Only healthy and certified rhizomes should be used for sowing or the rhizomes obtained from disease free regions should be sow.
After the completion of cultivation or tilling the remains of diseased plants should be collected and burnt.
The drainage system of the farm should be good so that water does not stands in the farm for much time.
Crop cycle should be adopted and farms should be cleaned.
The seeds should be treated with a solution of 0.1 % seresan for 3 minutes, It kills the hidden diseased fungi mycilium and healthy plants are prepared.
This disease is caused due to a fungus named coletotraikum gingiberi.
Initially small round or oval shaped light yellow patches appear on the leaves which later become brown in colour.
Later these patches increase and join each other.
The diseased part generally dries and falls down, This makes small pores in the leaves.
Entire leaves die when the intensity of disease increases.
Such leaves curl which are affected by the disease in the upper portion of the leaves..
Small black fungal dots on old patches increase.
The impact of the disease is more on humid high temperature climate.
This disease is caused due to a fungus named failostika gingiberi.
Small, colorless, oval or long patches appear on the leaves in this disease.
Later the size of patches increase and turn yellow in color and the edges become dark brown.
The outer portion of the patches are yellow in color.
When several patches come together and take the form of a bigger patch.
An increase in the number of black colored fungal dots on these patches is seen.
Piriculeria leaf patch: This disease is caused due to a fungus named piriculeria gingiberi.
The disease appears on the leaves in the form of oval or long patches.
The patches are red brown to brown in color.
The middle portion of old patches are grey and corners are dark brown in color.
The patches increase in size and join each other.
The middle part dries and falls down and a small pore is built in between.
Scorching of leaves: This disease is caused due to a fungus named rhiziktonia batatikola.
Irregular small size light brown patches appear on the leaves which later increase in size and spread on the entire leaves.
Diseased leaves become loose and either turn down or fall down.
Leaves turn white or light in color when the intensity of the disease increases.
There is an increase of a pin size black colored fungus at the diseased place which is known as " scleroshium ".
Yellow disease: This disease is caused due to a fungus named fugerium oxysporum, a sub variety of gingiberi.
The lower most leaves of the plant turn yellow in this disease.
The yellowing starts from the corners and gradually entire leaves turn yellow.
The diseased plants dies by drying but do not fall on ground.
The stem portion near the ground level is soft and watery.
Such plants easily come up on plucking.
The inner portion of diseased rhizomes are brown in color.
Roots start rotting.
The growth of rhizomes decreases.
Drying disease: This disease is caused more at the time of storing or during the maturing of ginger crop.
The inner portion of the rhizomes turn black in color because of this disease.
The diseased tissue turns into black powder.
This is actually a fungal growth.
The rhizomes shrink and fall when the disease is intense.
Such symptoms are caused due a fungus named diplodia netaelensis.
Another kind of drying disease is caused due to a fungus named maikofomia kaijiaulina.
The impact of this disease is seen more during the maturing of crops in farms.
The leaves of diseased leaves plants turn yellow.
Later the entire plant looks burnt.
Diseased rhizomes shrink and become dry.
Bacterial disease: This disease spreads due to a bacteria named psuedomonas solenesiarum.
The main symptoms of this disease are yellowing, loosing and drying of leaves.
Initially the lower leaves become dry and gradually the sequence of drying increases towards upper side.
The diseased leaves curl.
The stem portion near the ground level becomes watery and easily separates from the rhizome on plucking when the disease is intense.
The inner portion of diseased plant becomes livid or black in color.
Termite: It consists of insects of microterms and odontoterms species.
They are white or off white or dark brown in color with a touch of cream color.
The termites hidden in soil cover make under passes beneath and eat plant roots.
They cut the plant roots and stems in such a way as if they are cut with a sharp knife.
They begin their attack from sowing and they harm all the stages of crop.
The stem disease of ginger : The scientific name of this insect is dichocrosis puntifirelis.
The adult insects are medium sized butterfly which are white and yellow in color.
The harmful stage of this incest is the baby which is called caterpillar.
The baby enters the plant stem and reaches the rhizome by making an underpass beneath.
It eats the new buds.
Consequently symptoms start appearing, buds shrink and later become dry.
This insect affects more during July-August.
Rhizome magot: The scientific name of this insect is chelseadomia stikarnis.
The adult insects are very small in size and they only have a pair of front wings.
The harmful stage of this insect is also the baby which is called magot.
Magot is without wings,fleshy and off white in color.
It enters the rhizomes and eats the soft tissues, Consequently the rhizomes dries and when they increase in number the entire plant dries.
This insect attacks more during the month of October-November.
Leaf roller: The scientific name of this insect is udusthpus folus.
The adult insects are medium size black colored butterfly.
There are 8 wings patches in both the front wings and there is a big patch on the back wings.
The baby which is called caterpillar is light green in color and it is the harmful stage.
The baby curls the ginger leaves and stays inside eat and eats the inner leaf.
It attacks from August till October.
The healthy and tasty eatables of ginger: Ginger has a different significance amongst the tasty and spicy spices that nature has given us.
It is an extremely significant spice crop whose underground nodes have been used since ancient times.
The nodes of this spice crop are called rhizomes.
The fresh and raw rhizomes are called ginger and the dry rhizomes are called soth.
Both ginger and soth are home medicines for several diseases.
Generally several kinds of Ayurvedic medicines are made from Soth.
Apart from Humans soth is an ultimate medicine for several cattle diseases.
Method of preparation: Firstly properly wash ginger in clean water.
The cover of washed nodes should be peeled and finely chopped.
These pieces and the above mentioned ingredients should be properly mixed and filled in clean glass jar a wide mouth.
The mouth of the jar should be properly tied with a clean cloth.
This jar should be exposed in sun for 8-10 days everyday.
Meanwhile the sauce should be properly mixed from top to bottom so that all the ingredients are cooked.
The tasty and healthy ginger sauce is ready.
This sauce curbs cold, cough and fever and is very beneficial for children.
Soak ginger in clean water for two days.
On the third day take then out of water and prick them with steel forks and then again wash them with clean water.
Now boil these nodules in water at low flame and then take them out and dry them.
Further prepare a thin wire sugar syrup with 2 kgs of sugar and add ginger nodules into them and stir until they are cooked.
When the syrup becomes thick like honey and ginger nodules are properly cooked then take them out of flame and add green cardamom powder and rose water.
Fill the Jam into jars when they are totally cool.
This jam is tasty to eat.
Industrial body ASSOCHAM estimates that there will great opportunities for jobs in the industries based on information & technology, banking and agriculture in the country.
In a study report by ASSOCHAM it has been expected that the new year will be good for IT and IT service providers with the reform in American economy and downfall in rupee.
Similarly the scope of Rabi crop will support agriculture based tractors and demands and jobs in industries like manure, seeds and agricultural equipments.
According to the report with the reform in economic growth, the problems of blocked loans will be reduced and the government banks will accelerate the recruitment of vacant posts.
The modern methods of selective breeding and animal rearing such as dense pig cultivation(such kinds of practices are implemented at hens also)has increased the growth of flesh production.
With this issues related to chemicals used in the industrial production pertaining to the health impact of antibiotic medicines, growth hormones and flesh have come up.
Black cardamom (Emomam Sabletam) is the spice of the Indian origin.
Its birthplace has been considered as the Eastern Himalayan region of India.
Somewhere it is known as Nepali cardamom also.
Cultivation of the black cardamom is done in the Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur and West Bengal on small and big level.
But beside India black cardamom is cultivated in Nepal, Thailand and Bangla Desh.
In the world Nepal is the largest producer of the black cardamom.
There should be moist and hot climate for the black cardamom.
The region where temperature remains from 10 to 30 Celsius and more moisture and it rains yearly 2000-3000 mili meter, is great for the black cardamom.
Black cardamom does not bear dryness , this is the reason that in the plain area of the North India due to hit wave leaves and flower gets dried and fruit does not form even.
The plants of the black cardamom grow more properly near the canal or lakes under the shade of the big trees, even in the more moist soil.
The soil in which there is more fossils and slope, is best for the black cardamom.
Black cardamom is a member of the ginger plant family.
Leaves are thin, attached with stem of the green colour.
In the black cardamom the bunch of the flowers comes out from the top of the plants.
On the stipe of a flower, 25-30 flowers grow.
Pollination, is done itself or by honeybees.
Complete ripen fruits are of the red colour which become of the brown colour by being processed by smoke.
The quantity of the vaporised oil is 3-3.5 percent.
Black cardamom is cultivated by two ways.
Flowers come on the plants cultivated by the seed in five years.
But in the three years, flowers come in the plants which are cultivated by rhizomes and more yielding is gotten.
Gardens are made over the mountains near lakes and springs.
After cleaning farms and digging it 2-3 times soil is made loose and weeds are taken out of it.
The huge trees of Amaltas are grown for shade.
To transplant the sapling, after preparing 20-25 cm long, broad and deep hole it is filled with the half soil and half compost.
After transplanting the plant push the soil properly.
The best time to transplant the sapling is May-June, when the rain starts.
Always keep weedless the plantations of the black cardamom.
First and the second year when plants are small, then there is the more need of the weed-removing.
But When plants become more dense the weeds grow less, in such condition in a year just one or two hoving is enough if plants which are in shadow become more dense then must do its cutting-trimming hence it will not have bad impact of the more shadow.
In the dry weather, black cardamom must be irrigated.
Plant such trees in the shady trees which also do the work of the nitrogen stabilization in the soil with shadow like Amaltas, Irithina, Utis etc.
In Darjeeling and Sikkim Dwarf bush, Resh sawani sait golsi, Sait Ramana, Sawani tal, Ramasi, Golsi tal, Sawani small and Golsi dwarf are the main.
Tadang (Sikkim) Research Center of the Indian Agriculture Research Institute has selected the five best varieties of the black cardamom, which are like this: Ramnag, Rami, Ramsi, Green, Barlagi and Bebo.
Rhizome by vegetative method and the crop cultivated by Mustari praaroho gives flower in three years.
After pollination and impregnation fruits start to ripen in 5-6 months.
The work of the fruit plucking goes from August to November.
