The ' Venkaiah Naidu ' award is given in his honour at the yearly Nandi awards ceremony.
Now the place of Telugu film industry is at second place in India and every year approximately 245 films are made in it.
The third largest film industry of India is of the Tamil language.
Actor Rajnikant receives the most money in Asia.
Kamal Hassan of the Tamil film industry has received the most national awards - received three Best Actor , one Best Child Artist and one for Best Film.
Many films of Tamil language have been sent to the Oscars.
Ilaiyaraaja received an Academy Award twice in music direction and A.R. Rahman is an eminent music director for all Indians who won Oscars.
Malayali film industry is also quite a big industry in India.
Malayali cinema is of less budget but remains flourishing technically.
A. Vincent , Adoor Gopalakrishnan , Govindam , John Abraham are some well known names in Malayali films.
Till 1947 the production of Malayali films were done by Tamil producers mostly.
The place of regional films in India is very important.
In this country of various tongues and languages regional films are also as popular as Hindi films.
In the history of Indian cinema the contribution of Baburao Painter too cannot be forgotten.
Like Phalke he was a serious , creative and exploratory filmmaker.
In the era of silent films there has been a notable contribution of ' Kohinoor Films '.
Under the banner of this company 98 feature films were produced.
' Vikram Urvashi ' ( 1920 ) and ' Sati Anusuya ' ( 1921 ) were his famous films.
The first talkie of the world ' The Jazz Singer ' was made in 1927 which was produced by Warner Brothers.
There were three songs in this film and this film did very well.
Because of the production of talkies abroad there was a rush to make films in India too among whom Ardeshir M. Irani and Jamshedji Madan are prominent.
Prabhat Film Company and Bombay Talkies produced many important films from a social and historical viewpoint.
The first talkie presented by Prabhat films was' Ayodhya ka Raja ' ( 1932 ) which was released in Hindi and Marathi together.
The year 1933 was a historic year of Hindi cinema , when V. Shantaram produced the first colour film ' Sairandhri ' under the banner of Prabhat Film Company.
The technical work of colouring this film was done in Germany.
The film became successful and after this the relocation of the company was done to Pune from Kohlapur.
After ' Dharmatma ' V. Shantaram directed social films like ' Duniya na maane ' in 1937 and ' Aadmi ' in 1939 under the banner of Prabhat.
He created his company ' Rajkamal Kala Mandir ' as well as the first film produced by himself ' Shakuntala '.
This film became quite famous and was continuously shown for one hundred and four weeks in ' Swastik Cinema ' of Mumbai.
The establishment of Bombay Talkies was done by famous actor and director Himanshu Rai.
In 1950 another famous film of Bombay Talkies' Mahal ' came.
In this film the thriller of the doubt of rebirth was inserted.
The songs of this film are remembered even today.
Its lyricist was Khemchand Prakash and the narrative, dialogue and direction of the film had been done by Kamal Amrohi.
There were some such filmmakers apart from this talkies , without whose mention the history of Indian cinema is incomplete, among whim Sohrab Modi and Mehboob Khan ( 1906 - 1964 ) are prominently noteworthy.
These two created trend setter films , in which ' Pukar ' (1939 ) of Sohrab Modi and ' Mother India ' of Mehboob Khan are noteworthy.
After Independence the foundation of disharmony came between each other which was a big danger for the nationality and culture of the country.
Therefore to generate national Unity and communal harmony cinema played an important role.
The music for all the films of Mehboob Khan who has directed more than twenty four films has been given by Naushad.
Mehboob Khan's' Aan ' ( 1952 ) which remained quite popular abroad and because of songs and costume this film was a popular film at that time.
Actually , this was the remake of the film ' Aurat ' made in 1940 by him.
In this film the award for Best Actress was presented , which was a ' golden chapter ' in the history of Hindi cinema.
Bimal Roy's films in the realistic tradition of rural background are still a precedent.
Through his characters he not only presented the social reality in his every film , but made one aware of a sense of social responsibility.
After ' Do Bigha Zameen ' Bimal Roy directed three films together in 1954 , in which ' Baap - Beti ' , ' Viraj Bahu ' and ' Naukri ' are prominent.
For the film ' Viraj Bahu ' created on the novels of Sarat Chandra the Filmfare award for Best Actress was given to Kamini Kaushal.
Hereafter Bimal Roy made many other films too with Dilip Kumar , in which ' Devdas' , ' Madhumati ' and ' Yahudi ' are prominent.
On acquiring acting skills through inheritance Raj Kapoor gave a new dimension to reality and romancing through the medium of motion pictures and established modernity in Hindi cinema.
Under the banner of his R. K. studio founded in 1948 he made the first film ' Aag ' in 1948.
The use of the flashback technique was done for the first time in this film.
His film ' Shahar Aur Sapna ' made in 1936 presents the bitter truth on the housing problem of Bombay Metropolis.
Raj Khosla who started his career with ' Navketan ' made the film ' Kala Pani ' in 1958 with Dev Anand, which was based on a crime thriller.
Dev Anand gave a memorable performance in this film and he received the honour of Best Actor.
This film based on a crime thriller was a blockbuster film at the box office.
Sohrab Modi became such a filmmaker in this age who created historical costume films.
He made the film ' Jhansi ki Rani ' in 1953, which is considered the first technicolor film of India.
While talking about Hindi cinema if the trinities -Dilip Kumar, Raj Kapoor and Dev Anand are forgotten then it will be unjust.
Famous by the name of ' tragedy king ' or ' Devdas' the real name of Dilip Kumar was Yusuf Khan.
In the forties decade Dilip Kumar, Raj Kapoor and Dev Anand are prominent among the three artists who got their name written in golden letters in the history of cinema.
Starting his film career with ' Hum Ek Hain ' (1946) Dev Anand got his first break with ' Ziddi ' (1948), in which his heroine was Kamini Kaushal.
The film became a superhit and Dev Anand became an evergreen hero.
After this many films of his like ' Vidya ' , ' Jeet ' , ' Sanam ' , ' Nadaan ' , and ' Nirmala ' came with Suraiya and Madhubala.
Chetan Anand was Dev Anand's elder brother.
For helping him Dev Anand established the independent film company ' Navketan ' in which he retained the status of director.
In 1962 he made a film ' Haqeeqat ' on the background of the war of India - China which was quite popular and discussed.
The brother of the evergreen actor Dev Anand Vijay Anand made a popular film like ' Guide ' for the first time with Indo-American help.
' Guide ' is one of the memorable films of the golden age.
This film made Dev Anand an evergreen actor.
There is an important contribution of Baldev Raj Chopra and Yash Chopra also in the history of cinema.
B.R.Chopra made a trend setter film like ' Sholay ' (1953).
The background of his films was dependent on socio-economic as well as national unity and communal harmony.
He is considered such a director of Bollywood, who gave a new perspective and presented a new dimension to Indian cinema.
He has always picked up a new issue through the medium of each of his films.
For this reason he was honoured with the ' Dada Saheb Phalke award ' of 2001 for his unparalleled contribution in Indian cinema.
We love each other.
Our families also tolerate each other.
I make buildings, you are an interior designer.
It seems like yesterday that my daughter Natasha was born and today is her engagement.
Son Kabir, I have not lost a daughter, I have gained a son.
All you people are heartily welcomed to our family.
Kabir is one of the best people in this world.
You just hold his hand, walk with him because whatever happens he will not break your heart.
I have heard something about your bachelor party.
It was my bachelor party buddy , else I would never have done this.
This was one thing we had decided that we would do together.
If you cannot come I am cancelling this trip.
I am not getting senti, alright.
Once before also it has been cancelled then once again is fine.
I know why you do not want to come but now it has been four years since that thing.
Even today I have only two friends.
Imraan, What we had talked about , did you think about it?
Are you coming back to Mumbai or not?
And that you are going to Spain, is it a coincidence or had to made a programme?
Why don't you say clearly what you have to say?
Alright, you have an intention of meeting Salman?
Has he ever tried to contact you, Ever asked how you are, Ever called you once?
It is possible he did and you did not tell me.
Till yesterday I did not know even this that he was my father.
Alright, you do what you want to but remember one thing please, only Faisal was your father.
I am only going for three weeks, Natasha.
What will I do in London alone?
You will shop then after three weeks I will come there and life your shopping bags.
Buddy I cannot believe that the three of us are together.
First we will go to Costa Brava which is my choice, then Arjun wants to go to Seville and from there we will go to Pamplona which is your choice.
Tomorrow morning will leave for Costa Brava.
How much further is this gallery of yours buddy?
Salman Habib, Name is indigenous, would be Pakistani or Indian?
Don't know where we have reached while searching for his galleries.
Kabira, First see this amazing view and then see this poor friend of ours.
I say that he has become mentally sick.
Four years earlier we had had to cancel this trip because of her buddy.
Today we are here because of me.
Hey, What is your name?
Imran, but friends call me Majnu.
Arjun, It is the duty of man to try, success-failure is all in His hands.
You had said that I will buy a phone for you, you had not specified which phone.
Oho, Now please stop it yaar you two.
Anyway, now listen, what have we come to Costa Brava to do?
Laila, What are you doing here?
Buddy I am not getting married to her for wealth.
Will you be able to get married for money?
I want that life keeps surprising me, keeps inspiring me, find new people.
I want that you get a drink for me.
You life is about to change.
Kabir has said a lot about you.
Very cool, what is she doing in your room?
Imran has invited her to dinner, for celebrating our first life.
I am telling the truth.
Natasha why are you getting upset?
I am not upset, it is getting late for the flight.
It felt like today I am at the most peaceful place of the world friend.
Man is aware of his each breath, each moment.
Just imagine, if we could live our whole life like this.
So, is the fear of water still there?
Now there is no fear, not even of living.
Oho, All of life's secrets were revealed in one dive only.
Laila, Finally we are able to see our old friend and so that he does not relapse why don't you come with us on the rest of the trip?
Actually you guys should come.
No, tomorrow we are going to Seville.
Look, Seville was Arjun's choice, he has already done the booking.
And to play with the booking of Arjun is equal to giving an invitation to death.
Do not confuse your work with your life.
Your work is not your life, just a part of it like this relationship is a part of your life.
That is why I bought this apartment so that we could live together.
I am thinking about our future.
Future will come tomorrow Arjun, Where is our today?
What do you want from me?
You had promised that this time come what may we will go to Italy.
And without asking me you cancelled the ticket.
Yaar who knows I get this time with you both or not, thought whatever we have to do we should do it this time itself.
Laila, Your friend is quite cute.
Well, You forgot me so soon?
Laila, It will be written on the pages of history that my first love was you.
I thought you will be happy on seeing me.
Natasha, This is my bachelor trip and you know that I want to spend this time with my friends.
Really, Laila is your friend?
She is our driving instructor yaar, I had told you over the phone too.
Natasha, I met her only today.
This is why you have come here?
Dinner plan is being made, would you two want to come?
There is no need to go.
I too love you a lot.
Why, What happened if she came?
Laila, Your finance cannot come to your bachelor party.
Natasha hates you.
Yes, she said - Laila is your friend?
Laila, You live here in Spain?
After this holiday Kabir and I will be there.
In my opinion you three must come to Seville with us.
I am going back to London tomorrow.
So you had come for only one day?
I don't want to disturb your plan.
What kind of things are you saying Natasha, you disturbance?
Kabir was saying that you two have met with such difficulty?
But please you have to come for the wedding.
Imran please, Because of one man like you the name of all Indians is tarnished.
Why don't you both go for a long walk?
The boys whom I liked wanted something from life , I something else.
By the way what kind of boys do you like?
Like I know that the guy who gets only three weeks holiday in a year cannot be your type.
He cannot be anybody's type, where does he have the time?
And he who thinks about his career, not even him.
And he who thinks money to be the most important thing in his life?
You don't know anything about me.
Does earning money give you a lot of happiness?
I was eight years old when my dad passed away, leaving only a huge debt for my mother.
I understood very fast that this world runs on money and only money.
But you didn't give an answer to my question.
Yes, I get happiness from money.
Then why did you cry that day?
If even today you feel an absence of something then what is that?
Take out time for those things from which you get actual happiness.
Wow, Someone should learn from you how to live.
Its as if my life is passing inside a closed box.
A person should only be in a box when he is dead.
Natasha stay for another few days.
I am not likig seeing you in a sad mood.
How would you feel if I went somewhere alone with my friends without you?
You have your own life and and if tomorrow you and Samira want to take a trip somewhere why would I stop you?
And if I tell you over the phone that we have met some boys and have made plans for dinner with them then?
I have trust in you.
If you want to stay then stay and if you don't want to stay then I will leave you at the airport tomorrow.
Good luck, for the upcoming adventure.
And if you going to go to Singapore for your new project then I will also go with you.
But, that hotel is your dream project Natasha.
How did I know then that I am going to get married.
Do not worry buddy, we will reach.
Listen, what is your feeling about these two?
His behaviour fails in front of Natasha.
If a friend will not understand the problem of a friend then who will understand?
Again he is sitting hiding his face behind the same diary, boring us.
Man, What do you keep writing in that?
You are definitely going through some emotional problem.
I always say that if a friend does not understand the problem of a friend then who will understand?
I will say one word, hearing that whatever comes to your mind first you have to say, without thinking.
Aha, So according to my test result your emotional problem is your father and you are hiding this from everybody.
And according to my opinion, Doctor Sigmund Fraud, you should tear and throw away your degree.
Yes buddy, she was very happy on meeting you too.
Kabir, You are happy right?
Why, Why are you asking like this?
Are you happy with Natasha?
Dude, you have met her the first time.
She thought that there is something between Laila and me.
There is an artist of the name Salman, he lives here.
That lady was saying, in the gallery, that he sells his painting from the house itself.
In any case I am totally fed up with the company of you two.
Then come I ' ll show you people what plans I have made for us three?
You made this plan intentionally right, You know that I feel scared of doing this.
Just imagine, we have to come flying towards the ground after jumping from a height of fifteen thousand feet.
That is called falling, not flying.
Ultimately he also felt nice in the water.
And you were going to cancel this holiday.
This holiday was written in our fate.
This moment, our being here, everything is written.
If someone does not bail us, then we will keep rotting here till this case goes to court.
Arjun, Tell him that I have to make a call.
Well why will bail us?
Sir, my name is Imran.
I am the son of Rahila.
He used to love you very much Imran.
Whether it is Sports Day or Parents Day, whether our fathers came or not, Abbu would always come.
Do you always appear with such manners?
So what are you guys doing in Seville?
Meaning after jumping from the plane you landed straight in jail?
But, apart from that what work do you do?
My family has a construction business.
Oho, It doesn't matter, anybody can make a mistake.
What you write in advertising is for others, like I have made this painting for others, do you write anything for yourself?
I thought many times about you that sometime, somewhere there will be a meeting with you.
But this I could not understand ever that when I will meet you what should I say?
What is truth?
Everyone has his own value of truth.
Look, I was twenty five years old.
Rahila was probably a couple of years younger than me.
My dreams were different, I wanted to be an artist.
I came to know about you last year.
But you knew since ages that I was there, but you never wanted to meet me.
I thought this is better.
You had only said that you wanted to hear the truth right?
Can I do anything for you?
I can't say right now Natasha, will say when I meet.
Why are you asking the same question again and again?
You know, before this holiday everything was alright between us.
Kabir are you serious about this relationship or not?
I thought this should be the last experience of our trip, this could be the last experience of our life.
Agreed that this is not as safe as the rest of the sports, its illegal too in many countries.
If you want to erase the fear hiding inside yourself then here is our greatest fear death.
Because there is victory beyond fear.
I will stand tomorrow morning at seven ' o clock at the starting line, whether you come or not.
I hope you didn't propose this marriage a little too soon?
Actually I hadn't even proposed.
On Mom's birthday I had bought a ring for her.
I had shown the ring to Natasha before giving it and she thought that it is for her.
So this is why this vacation is so important for you.
Basically, you had to hear from someone else that you should not go ahead with this marriage and who would say this to you apart from both of us?
But ask yourself that whether you want to go ahead with this marriage one hundred percent?
But I have already committed buddy.
Its not so easy Imran, our parents have become involved.
Why are you thinking about dying buddy, think this that if you remain alive then what will you do?
If I stayed alive then I will show you both my poetry.
If I remain alive then I will go to London and tell Natasha that I am sorry, but I cannot go through with this marriage.
In my opinion there must be some disarray in the car.
In my opinion, someone amongst us has got up in the morning and seen the face of a girl.
You were coming down from upstairs, I had only seen your face.
She is looking at a girl which is why the car is not starting.
Till the time she keeps seeing towards this the car is not going to start, she should be chased off.
Hey, you gave a holiday to Mauja.
But who will stay here at night?
See brother, You give him a holiday one day and I will stay, simple.
Once sleep comes at night then it breaks with great difficulty.
If some customer returns after coming back then don't tell me anything.
See ma ' am light has gone, now you go too!
Come tomorrow to report.
Please open the door, I am in great trouble.
My car has broken down.
Please open the door, I am a girl, you should help me.
It will take some time to repair the car you sit somewhere.
See my coat is lying there wear it.
Wow, The car is also behaving like a wet cat like ma ' am.
See, there is a flask kept there, pick it up and bring it here.
Pick it up and bring it yourself, I am not your servant.
I am also not the servant of anybody.
When the flask will come only then will the work get done.
Take, its hot tea drink it up quick.
You are shivering from the cold, but the mind has still not cooled.
Pardon the trouble madam you had to sit for quite some time.
I haven't seen a man as strange as you ever.
The thing actually is this, people think me to be a little mad!
You mad, you will make a good sensible person mad too.
It is nine o ' clock why haven't you gone home and slept?
Lat night a girl had come.
I am waiting for her.
What is he doing?
Which girl are you waiting for?
She had come to get her car repaired.
But why are you waiting for the girl?
She left without giving the money.
She has kept this bag and gone, will definitely come back.
How do I open the bag without asking the girl?
There is not even a paisa in this.
You return this bag of cartridges to her and ask for five rupees and twelve annas.
That is alright brother, but this question now arises that I haven't seen the girl so why should I go?
It is his fault, he should go.
Ok Shiela now I ' ll leave, its become quite late.
If the car stops again like yesterday then trouble will come.
Pray that the car does not stop on the way.
Here take your bag, oblige me and tell me the way to go out.
Oh you didn't recognize me , you had come to my garage yesterday, I had repaired your car.
I had fallen asleep in your car.
In my car, is your mind alright?
Its absolutely unsound, else why would I have to take so much trouble for five rupees and twelve annas?
Father, in my opinion, he has gone hid on the roof.
Then I will blow him off with a bullet.
Listen, there is probably some garbage in the carburetor and also the brake cannot be applied properly.
First you pay the earlier bill then I will do the second work.
But I have come here for the first time.
Hey why are you panicking so much?
Please send for a glass of water for me.
How can I sit in the car with you?
How did this police inspector come here?
Last night a thief had come to our house, for that.
Last night a famous jeweler by the name of Lalchand in your locality was murdered.
His corpse was found on the road.
Before the arrival of the police that rouge ran away from there.
It is possible that some man from their gang had entered your house.
Then Inspector Sahab search properly, because the rouge has seen my house.
You don't worry, it is a matter of murder, I will investigate specially.
Thank you, till then I will go keep this jewellery etcetra in the bank.
First let me conduct an inquiry with your driver.
Inquire properly Inspector Sahib, it is very important for the rouge to get caught.
Last night since the thief has come my heart has been panicking like this.
Did a thief really come into your house?
Then am I lying?
In my opinion that wasn't any thief, he was a very great hermit.
That is why he left after eating five fruits, three bananas and two apples.
Why did you start the discussion about the thief in front of daddy?
You had started saying everything, you are absolutely mad.
Till now what madness have you seen?
Just meet my brothers then you will come to know.
I am very less compared to them.
Uncle, when Renu will get married then you will yearn to eat like this.
You are absolutely right child!
Why child you haven't heard the name of King Hardayal?
His younger brother Rajkumar Prashchand is returning from abroad in just a few days.
Raja Sahab was saying that the boy is very promising, is good looking also and nature is also very nice.
In my opinion that boy is worthy of you in every respect.
Worthy of me, then are you talking about my marriage?
What else, uncle wants to make you a princess.
Then have you decided the matter?
No child without your consent how can I decide the matter.
Prakash will come, you see him.
If you like him then say yes.
Father, I will not marry any Rajkumar.
You must be bursting with joy on hearing the name of Rajkumar.
You have made a face as if you are really angry.
Alright, this time I will tell Uncle that Rajkumar will not do, get her married to some Nawab or King.
I knew that you would definitely come one day.
I have been waiting for you since long.
Are you sleeping or awake?
Oh, Why are you screaming like this?
I had come to give the bill of the car.
You all have become troubled on my coming.
No no, there is no matter for trouble if you wanted to pay the bill you could have come to the office.
I had gone to the office to pay the bill but even there a boy was dancing.
Listen I have some work, can I take Mannu with me?
I will always remember this day.
Not just the day this night will also be remembered by me very well.
After going home how many punches I will get from my elder brother only I know.
You fear your brother so much?
No no I am not scared, have to be scared.
The thing is actually that people love me a lot, I too love those people a lot.
That is why I feel scared that such a thing should not happen because of which he gets angry.
Renu you don't understand it is seven o ' clock.
Kishenchand ji, if you say yes then I will feel relieved.
Raja Sahab, you have brought the relation, how can I say no?
But the matter is this that it is important to ask Renu once too.
Sure but I have already selected Renu for my younger brother.
But when is Prakash returning from abroad?
He is about to reach in a few days and if God desires then you will be as happy on seeing him as I am happy on seeing Renu.
Son is this design liked.
I say Raja Sahab what is the need for this?
Does anyone come empty handed to see a girl, it is a matter of auspicious gift.
Take it child, if it is the wish of Raja Sahab how can we refuse?
Even though she is the only child of such a wealthy father she is so gentle and shy.
Mannu you have not yet seen the world.
I am saying for your benefit, woman is the root of all problems.
One should remain away from even her shadow.
Then why do you keep a photo of a girl with you?
I was not going to hide this matter from both of you.
I had thought will tell you when the time comes.
Prakash you don't know me yet I think ahead.
Then you had a suspicion that Ramlal would get arrested..
Not suspicion, I was certain I just wanted to see how clever he is.
But Raja Sahab if he told his secrets to the police then!
No he cannot be so bold.
Have you heard the name of Seth Kishanchand.
He can buy three-four kings like you.
It seems like a new scheme is building in your mind.
Raja Sahab as far as I think you have already tried a scheme like this before.
I was thinking Raja Sahab that you have such wealth even then why do you make such a type of scheme?
Prakash when you will get wealth you will understand.
Only people with wealth need wealth, hungry people just need bread.
Do you have any objection to this speed of mine?
By the way if you want to see my real speed then you come tomorrow.
At Ju airport, there is car racing there I have also made an entry there.
If you will come there then I will definitely win.
Yes, now I will definitely have to come else how will you win?
Why didn't you tell me earlier I would also have come with you.
What did I know that you were also going to come here.
I had to come for Kumar Sahab but how are you here?
Kumar Sahab maybe I did not prove lucky for you.
Mannu won your reward and went.
Renu your marriage has been arranged with this Kumar.
Well child you two sit I have very important work.
You know that we are three brothers.
I have brought up both my brothers with much care.
Till now they respected me but today didn't listen to me.
I am talking about Mannu you are responsible for him.
I have never thought Mannu to be a toy for pleasing the heart.
I know why you are saying all this.
What do you know.
Only that one girl has betrayed you, broken your heart.
But this does not mean that all girls are like that.
If the time comes, I will prove it.
All girls are the same.
Anyway I don't want to argue with you.
I want, that you stop meeting Mannu.
This will make you happy.
I am not talking about my happiness.
If Mannu will get happiness from this then I will never meet him.
This is really a great injustice.
Elder brother is a boxer when he feels like he can deliver a punch.
Even if we want what do we younger brothers do Mannu.
Big brother is this injustice or not?
At night time it is not a good thing to roam around with girls.
Was there anything lacking regarding our hospitality for you?
Renu what is the need for you changing costumes?
Oh, Now you like Rajkumar so much that without him you don't feel peace.
I hate even the sight of your brother's face.
Mohan now the days of your life are over.
He will not say anything to anybody.
If you want to save his life then simply agree to get married to Praksah.
What, never, I will consider dying better before marrying that scoundrel.
Absolutely right, you don't worry about his threats.
Don't say that, because of me you have landed in this trouble.
Mohan, We cannot get out from here in any way.
It is easy to get caught but very difficult to come out.
I am Renu the daughter of Seth Kishanchand.
I have seen you somewhere.
For ten years apart from these walls no one has heard my voice and you say that you have seen me.
For ten years no one has seen me, I am trapped for ten years.
Help us free us from here.
Raja Sahab you here, how is Renu?
Nothing like that you sit, there is nothing to worry about.
But I am unable to understand why these people have brought me here like this?
Sethji at this moment of happiness we thought that it is very important for you to be present.
Today we are getting Kumar married to Renu.
Sethji forgive us everything had to be done in a hurry under compulsion.
I have got the magistrate called.
Daddy, This scoundrel got you here too.
These people are very bad, very dangerous Daddy.
Now its better for you that you silently allow Renu's wedding to happen.
Definitely not, I will never let my daughter get married to a scoundrel.
You will allow, if you love Renu then this wedding will definitely happen.
Good girls never go against their father.
This wedding will be got done by your daddy.
Definitely not, I will not let anything happen against the wishes of my daughter.
I have understood everything and now after ten years I got the satisfaction that whatever I thought about you was all wrong.
In my opinion Mannu and Renu should not be kept apart.
If you don't have any objections.
What objection will I have in this.
National Sports Stadium is filled to the brim with spectators, the final two minutes of the thrilling final of the World Men's Hockey Championship.
India is trailing behind Pakistan by one goal.
Indian captain Kabir Khan, the best forward of India, is bringing spirit to his team.
The tension of India-Pakistan game can be clearly reflected on the faces of the officials.
In these two countries match often becomes much bigger than game and this match is also just like that.
Now only one and a half minutes left and India must do something fast to refrain from losing.
Ball is still with Pakistan's defender.
All of India's responsibility is now on Kabir Khan.
Don't turn around and look Mother, Let's go.
How can I not see Kabir, Your grandfather had collected every penny and made this with such fondness.
Your father had got the windows made with his first salary, my palanquin had come here son.
And whether someone gives me support or not, our colony people will definitely give us support, you see.
What is the decision of you people?
What Uttam ji, You are repeating the same thing again and again, what do you have to do about their coach, you become it.
Hockey world cup is in three months, the team can't go just like that right?
However it goes, it will lose and come.
Indian women's hockey team has not been able to do anything, neither will it do anything, its a government tour, I say, you become the coach and go.
Anyway this team has to get disqualified after a few matches.
With this excuse you can go roam abroad with wife etc.
I cannot understand, why do you people take women's hockey seriously?
Putan ji, These are women who use rolling pins, now where will they keep running around wearing knickers.
If you people stay in the Association and talk these things then.
We are in the Association, have seen the world, that is why we are talking these things.
From your side you chose the top sixteen players and brought them, you have even gone to this Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Jharkhand, Andhra, Mizoram and Manipur.
Now where will you get a coach for them?
You want to get your lost respect by support of this team, such a team which cannot play with even the school teams of European countries.
I want a team like that.
I have done my work, you can still think.
Kabir, This is not a team its a grave, Why are you walking into it?
This team will not get a better coach than you, but think about yourself buddy.
We had not lost that match because of you Kabir, you had almost hit a goal against them right.
But they hit, Against me, my team, my country, my family.
One mistake is forgiven for all.
Kabir, Why have you come back here?
To get this team the World Cup.
Have you run away and come from a mental institution you two, what do you want?
Are you the Ramlila people, You will not get the stadium before Diwali, go!
Oh man, These two are hockey players.
Name Kabir Khan, I am the coach, of the Indian National Women's Hockey team, which I have been told is you.
Have all players reached Krishna ji?
Which player is good, which bad, I will take this decision Krishna ji, Thank you.
You cannot keep the captain of a state team out like this.
Neither can I hear the name of a state, nor can I see them, I can only hear the name of one country India, and there is no place on this team for latecomers.
I have been told that from twenty five crore girls of this country the best hockey players were found to be you.
Your fate is good and bad too because now I will take the decision for this.
For me you are only those sixteen girls who have some fondness for hockey, don't keep any hope above this, you will regret it.
Is this any way, to treat national level players.
We are children, We don't know training?
He is the coach, not God, come, lets rest.
You get very angry, it seems like you will break his head.
Sir, How long more do these girls have to sit?
I don't think anybody can teach these girls to play hockey together.
Playing hockey is a far off thing, all of them need to be taught something else before that.
No girl will stay with a girl from their state, coach sir has said.
Let him keep saying, if we don't follow then!
Rest everybody has agreed, if you have any problem then talk to coach sir.
Sit all day in the sun, change beds at night, they are running a national camp or refugee camp.
Oh, it is the wedding of the sister of Sameer jijaji, Amma - Babu has said to call.
Rakesh, Do you know, this is the national camp.
Daughter, relationships first, sports later, see you were persisted so we let you play.
Now we are calling, come back by the next train.
Rakesh please, understand, I cannot come, I have waited all my life for this camp.
Vidya, You are very great, but I am not as great as you.
I will not wait for you all my life.
The wedding is day after tomorrow, come if you want to, else don't come.
They want a daughter-in-law then they want children, they want care, but I don't have anything right now with me apart from this hockey stick.
If you want to go then go for one or two days.
If I go now then I will not be able to come back ever.
Sometimes I feel whether its that wrong to play in this country ?
No, we can play house, we can play politics, we can play cricket, but hockey is a slight problem.
Have you heard the name of Muhammad bin Tuglaq?
He was the emperor five hundred years back, everybody used to call him mad he had irritated everybody, he stopped the production of coins of gold and silver and started coins of brass.
If you have this much intelligence then why don't you use it in the game?
You people keep kicking your heels here, see who has come downstairs.
What happened, Has some film star come?
The secret keeper didn't tell anyone, she is his fiancee, she has got a day off till morning from Kabir sir.
See, how she is dancing and playing.
Come on leave it, let us also play.
Hey, Come on buddy, we are rotting at this bench for the last seven days.
We are players, not some association who will sit on benches.
Thank God Sir, the situation came a little under control.
Its not come under control Krishna ji, Its about to go out of it.
Krishna ji, Make her drink water and make her go out.
These are the best hockey players of India, will go to the world championship, will hoist the flag of India.
The association people say the correct thing, how will these people who roll the rolling pin play hockey.
Those who cannot play as a team, how will they win the world cup?
I had said earlier, only those players are needed in this team who are playing first for India, then for their teammates in this team, if after that too some strength is left then for yourself.
I think it was a little too much for today, They are but girls, how much can they do, If you search for strength like boys in them then.
I am searching for intention, not strength Krishna ji, For playing like a team you need intention not strength.
But Sir, like this they will make you their enemy.
If they can be each other's friends by making me their enemy then this is a very small price for making a team Krishna ji.
Why are you people not in the round?
The team does not want to practice with you.
Everybody wants, that the coach should be changed.
I will give one slap to all of you.
Why Krishna ji, Why will you slap us, Have we sold the country and come?
I came back to hockey after seven years thinking that the reason why my team lost, I will defeat that reason once.
But today I lost again.
You don't have a problem with me.
You have a problem for the reason that I forced you to play with each other, instead of against each other.
I made you think about your team before yourself, I forced you for playing for India before your state.
Alright, you people have won, I have lost.
But I do not have any regret of being defeated by you, I regret this fact that I was defeated by my country.
Think once again sir, a good team will be stopped in the making sir.
Today is my last day in this camp.
I am taking the full staff on lunch before leaving, if anyone from you wants to come with us they can come.
I had told you right, that to make a team we need intention, not strength, today for the first time I have seen the intention Krishna ji.
I am going for the world cup now.
What kind of mad things are you saying, you will postpone our wedding for the world cup?
If this was your world cup then?
That is a different thing, That is the world cup of cricket, its a very big thing.
This is also a big thing for me.
Go play world cup, if you lose you will become my wife and if you win even then you will become my wife.
It is not as if when you come back from the world cup the entire country will be chanting your name.
The way the mind of that Bindiya is working, is it right for her to stay on the team?
I don't know Krishna ji, But it will not be right for the most experienced player of the team to not be there.
We will not be able to deal with her.
We will not be able to win without her.
This is the silver medal of your world cup right sir, what is it doing with this?
I am trying to change it to gold by rubbing it, if the situation comes for me to sell it in Chor Bazar, at least should get the right price for it.
Kabir Sir, Its better if you forget the world cup.
And tell those girls too to whom you are showing foolish dreams.
But our talk was about making this team ready for the world cup.
It wasn't on stamp paper Kabir sir, that you will corner us.
But the talk was held in front of me Tripathi ji!
Then let us talk even now in front of you.
But this team is absolutely ready for the world cup.
If they get ready for the moon tomorrow we will not be sending them Uttam sir!
The team cannot go for world cup, this decision has been taken.
Why don't you say clearly that you are snatching the sponsor of the women's hockey team and giving it to the men's hockey team?
You are all players, why do you get into those things about which you have no connection?
Let one match take place between my team and your team.
You mean between men's team and women's team.
Same, your team and my team, if we lose then we lose and if we win then the world cup.
Alright, let it be day after tomorrow morning.
Hey, At least give some time for preparation.
Day after tomorrow morning means day after tomorrow morning, yes or no?
Let us meet on the field day after tomorrow morning.
Tripathi ji, Even your team needs to practice.
Firstly, they will not win and if by chance they even win.
By mistake, they cannot win even by mistake, you think, by how many goals will they lose.
And if they lose once then the topic remains forever closed.
I have full confidence on this team, does this team have confidence on themselves?
See, you are not competing against these boys.
Do not think that your match is against these sixteen boys.
Your match is against all those boys of this country, who think that girls cannot play as well as boys, cannot work as well as boys, cannot make decisions as well as boys.
Your match is against every such idiot who has forgotten that if girls can give birth to him then they can do anything, anything!
Play together with each other, play with all your strength.
If it is enough then shall we get it stopped Kabir sir , or do you want to play more.
We had said, these are Indian women, where will they go wearing knickers.
Oh sir, you have fallen quite a bit, Will you be able to get up yourself or should I tell the girls to pick you up.
Hello, I am Kapil Verma and I welcome you.
In Melbourne's state hockey and netball centre where in the first match of the world women's hockey championship India is against six time world champion Australia.
Both teams are facing each other, The demeanor of the Australian team clearly reflecting the stance of a world champion.
Salute to the national flags, respect for their tricolour in the eyes of Kabir Khan and his players.
Enthusiasm among the spectators, players ready and the match begins.
In the first minute of the match the pressure building on the Indian team, coach Kabir Khan is cheering on his players.
Probably the last strategy by Kabir Khan for saving the match which is going out of control.
Bindiya, What are you doing, What were you doing on the field?
After today you will not play in any match of this world championship.
The exit of Bindiya from this world championship is almost certain after such a big loss in the first match itself.
If there is a chance then it is just that she defeats England in the match which will take place tomorrow, but looking at the form of the Indian team it can only be dimly hoped.
You are welcomed in Melbourne, where England is playing for two points in group A, but India for keeping her hopes alive for the world championship.
The Indian team of coach Kabir Khan which has surprised everybody by advancing continuously is going to play that match tomorrow morning which could stop it from this climb.
Because if India wins this quarter final then it will go into the semi finals, but if it loses then it will be out of this world championship.
India is against Argentina tomorrow, the team which injured seven girls of the opposition team by its rough game in the last game.
This Indian team of coach Kabir Khan has reached the semi finals of the world championship.
But now they face Korea, who in the entire tournament has not even let a team reach its goal.
We will not even be able to move like this, playing is a far-off option, who will be able to break a game like this?
How to break a man-to-man marking, only you know, the match is beginning go!
India has entered the finals of the world championship and from the condition of this stadium you can judge how the team must be feeling at this moment!
And how the coach of this team must be feeling who had been refused to let this team be brought here a few months back.
You did a marvel sister, This army of demons has made a backward bridge from Lanka.
Your blessings are there, on these girls Sukhlal ji.
Those Ramlila people had come sister, I told them that this is the Indian women's hockey team ground, its waiting for its team.
We will not give it to anybody, now only hockey will be practiced here that's all.
Sukhlal ji, Your curd - rice is missed a lot.
You guys win the world cup and bring it child, I will feed you curd rice all my life, you cannot lose, don't lose.
No Sukhlal ji, We will die and come but we will not lose and come.
What are you doing here sir?
See, I am seeing a white man hoisting the flag of India for the first time.
We reached till the final, is it not a dream.
The coach of Australia and its payers are stupid, They have not noticed till now that both the Man Fridays of India are not passing the ball to each other!
What do you think, they will not take advantage of this!
Komal, You will not be able to cheat me, at least don't cheat yourself.
You had come to Delhi to play hockey by fighting with your parents, brother, village everybody, but now you are playing something else not hockey and even you know this.
Tell her sir, She had started everything.
And you will finish it in tomorrow's match.
You both are not children, You know it very well that if you don't play together tomorrow then we will not win this final.
Once a team of India had lost a final just like this.
How heavy the burden of that loss is, you will probably not be able to understand it now, but when you do you will be able to tolerate it.
You both do not have that much strength, no one has that much strength.
Now this is upon you both, whether you want to play with your team or against your team.
And today that night is upon us which was awaited by everybody, today is the final of the women's hockey world championship.
That team which won everybody's heart by its performance here, But there is a big difference between winning hearts and winning the championship.
You have seventy minutes, Maybe the most special seventy minutes of your life.
Today whether you play good or bad, you will remember these seventy minutes for the rest of your life.
Then how we should play, I will not tell you today.
I will just say that go and play these seventy minutes to the fullest.
Because after this in the coming years whether something is right or not, whether something remains or not, you win or lose but no one can take away these seventy minutes from you, no one.
Then, I have thought how we should play in this match, today I will not tell you in fact you will tell me , by playing.
Because I know that if each player of this team plays the best hockey of their lives in these seventy minutes, then even God cannot ask for these seventy minutes back from you.
Then go and snatch your seventy minutes from yourself, this life, your God and every such person who has not trusted you.
The Indian team has told in the first minute of the match that they are not going to play this match like any underdog.
How important it is for the mental strength of this Indian team to score the first goal in this match, that is clearly reflected in the face of their coach.
Australia is not a team to tolerate its humiliation lightly and its regular attacks will put India into difficulties.
The Indian women's hockey team returning from the world championship has done something for which the heart of every Indian had been longing for.
And no one has brought this win but the most successful centre forward of the country Kabir Khan.
In the faces of those hundreds of people standing in wait at this airport there is the fervour of win and only one name on the hearts, Kabir Khan.
But Kabir Khan cannot be seen, where is Kabir Khan?
The credit for this win of Indian hockey is being given to the coach of the team Kabir Khan.
Second June 1947, one such date in the history of India on which it was decided to lay the foundation on the ground of compromise.
Among the Congress, the Muslim League and Lord Mountbatten in the Viceroy House signatures were done on the deed of Partition.
Hindustan was divided into two pieces, the second piece became Pakistan.
Another clause was kept in the agreement that there will be no transfer of population.
Which meant that whichever Muslim wanted to remain in India he would stay in India and whichever Hindu wanted to live in Pakistan he would in Pakistan, but this just could not be.
Every Hindu in this area is given a warning that there will be a special train for India from Pipla station today evening.
There was a train of eight coaches at Pipla station and there were ten thousand people.
It was as if fate, destiny, Allah, God everything has fallen asleep.
Kill the old people, young people, children, don't leave anybody.
In this way from different parts of Pakistan trains full of the corpses of Hindus and Sikhs were sent to India.
Hindus and Sikhs in different parts of India got enraged and from the fire of this communal hatred even those who lit the fire could not be spared.
We are the renowned businessmen of this country, it is the duty of the government to protect us.
You leave us till the Delhi airport, that's all.
Daroga ji, If even one man enters I swear on God you will not forget the name of Ashraf Ali Khan for the rest of your life.
Those lighting the fire themselves got scared of the fire.
Mister Ashraf Ali, This is not the time to be angry.
Only two hours are left, on the special train from Amritsar to Lahore, you come fast.
Brother Sarafraj had called so many times from Lahore to get out fast.
How could I have left the entire business spread in India?
How much money had we given to the Muslim League, and we had tried so hard that along with Lahore, the entire Punjab comes into Pakistan.
Passengers travelling to Lahore must get on the train as fast as possible.
Tara, Save us Tara!
No one will touch her, she is known to me.
Oh Tara, You have become mad.
You will flow every drop of blood for this girl, she is Muslim.
She is Muslim, Here now she has become a Sikhni.
Now go and handle chickens, I will go and meet the Major in the canteen.
Hey, Its not Major, its manager in the canteen.
They make me do all the work of the canteen.
I got startled on hearing English suddenly.
You all know very well that my English is a little weak.
Mister, We give you much trouble.
What trouble is there in this, you all stay away from the city in the hostel.
You all keep praising me but you didn't put forward the thing about my singing at the Salana Jalsa.
We will make you meet a new music teacher for making you sing songs at our annual function.
Oh yes, there is a small difficulty, our music teacher can hear at a higher volume.
Oh, I sing at a high volume since childhood.
Listening to his high notes even the people in the neighbourhood lose their notes, there are fights everyday.
His screws are a little loose.
Ok mister Tara Singh, You reach the music room at 12 sharp on Sunday, ok.
It seems, I will definitely sing in this Salana Jalsa.
Yes, If the music teacher does not apply the break in between.
What , me become the music teacher?
I do not like making fun of anyone.
Hey Sakina, You are a student, not the principle.
I understand that you all want that mister singer should go away forever.
He should not mention singing in the annual function ever.
Yes, because we have told him that our teacher hears loudly.
Yes madam, I am Tara Singh.
Speak a little louder, Awara Singh?
No no, not Awara Singh, Tara Singh.
She cannot even hear my voice, how will she listen to my song.
Madam, Kanchan has sent me to you for singing.
Song, then say that, but have you ever sung a song?
When I sing on the stage in the village, then the entire village whistles.
Very good Tara ji, your voice knocks directly at the heart.
I didn't know that you sing so sweetly.
Then Madam, Then I will get an opportunity to sing at the Annual Function?
Sorry Tara ji, I beg pardon.
Actually, we all girls were together having fun with you.
I am no music teacher, I am a student here.
My name is Sakina.
Tara ji, Can I say one thing to you, it was a pleasure meeting you.
I will talk to the principal and will try that you may sing at the annual function.
One minute, it was nice meeting you too.
At least you thought about this poor man this much.
Madam, Actually I wanted to talk to you about something.
I had told you right that I am not madam, I am Sakina.
But for me you are madam.
Did that matter of ours go ahead or not, I mean the singing matter.
Actually the thing is that the principal says that you don't study in this college, that is why you will not be able to sing in the programme.
Oh, I am not a student of this college, that I will sing in the function.
I will meet you tomorrow at the function.
The God gives talent to only a few special people.
And that is the theme, in this programme of ours today.
The theme which Mrs. Lamba mentioned we are presenting that in a new way.
Like an innocent child does not think about small or big before giving his smile, a flower its fragrance, the Sun its light, like that nature bestows the talent of singing without discrimination.
A talented person like that is present among us, Mister Tara Singh!
Why did you show pity on this poor me, whatever was there with me everything was lost.
Hey Tara Singh, You?
I had to buy a gift for you.
Often when people part ways, they give gifts.
See Madam, It took me two full nights to think what I should buy for you.
Because the gift should be beautiful like you, should be pure.
Madam, I came home.
You wash your face, I will bring clothes for you.
Don't misunderstand me here, I had to put vermilion on your forehand for saving your life.
You don't worry, you are completely safe here.
You only want to know whether anybody survived or not on the train which left yesterday from Amritsar.
Oh Kaka ji, Who will survive in this flow of blood?
White people finished India.
This is the luggage of those unlucky people, who were cut up in the Amritsar train yesterday.
You see, if there is any luggage belonging to your people.
Tara, Someone wants India and someone wants Pakistan.
You were also killing the Muslims, then why did you leave me, I also wanted to die.
Madam ji, In circumstances when hell breaks loose, then man goes mad, comes down to killing and dying.
Madam ji, I have lit the pyre of my family with these hands.
Those corpses burnt to ashes, but this body is burning even today.
This story is not only yours and mine, it is of thousands of Sikhs, Hindus, Muslims.
No matter how cruel life is, we have to live Madam ji.
You leave us to the Muslim camp.
He will leave us to our Uncle's place in Lahore.
We have a very big house there.
You are saying the right thing, Madam ji.
Anyway this house is not worthy of you.
But you in a refugee camp, No Madam, no, I will leave you till your home Lahore.
Early morning we shall leave for Lahore.
Borders were divided, the elements may or may not make us meet again, God only knows this.
We will not go to Lahore.
Madam, Why don't you want to go to Pakistan?
I told you that I don't want to go.
The country which broke it up, which killed my brother Gurdeep, my sister-in-law, my nieces, you want to build a relationship with it.
Uncle, Take this, kill me, but know one thing, hatred only burns, turns into ashes.
Whether that is heart, house, country and because of this hatred a sword has come into my hand.
If at the crucial moment the hand of love had not claimed me today even Tara would have burnt to ashes.
Who else is there in this world who is mine Uncle?
You will not listen to me, alright Uncle!
I am speaking from the Pakistan consulate from Delhi, I wanted to speak with Khan sahab.
Madam, There is a lady here who is saying that she is the daughter of Khan sahab.
Saku, How are you?
I am fine Ammi!
One minute Saku, Let me call your Abbu.
Listen, Saku has called, from India, she is alive, and well.
Saku my child, Where all did I not search for you?
Alright see, you apply for a visa at the consulate there.
We have known people there.
I cannot tell you how happy I am.
Abbu, You came till here and didn't even come down.
Daughter, If I stepped on the ground of India then thousands of wounds would have opened.
This land snatched away our son Aslam too and anyway this land is no longer ours and neither is this country nor the people here.
Our land, our people, our country is, Pakistan.
Sarafraj, I have got a reason to live because of Safina coming, now we will never feel the absence of Aslam.
I am aware of your emotions.
If I have a worry then only this that Sakina's past might not affect the future yet to come.
Sakina is our daughter Sarafraj, She is not outside her father's influence in any way.
If your unlce's house wasn't in Pakistan and these houses of ours were not here then.
Ammi, But everyone had to face these problems and destruction, but why are we now being put into difficulty.
Sakina, You only think about yourself, not about our honour.
I have got married Ammi, It is not a joke, we even have a son.
I cannot live without him and my son Ammi!
Why, aren't we living after losing our son?
This border which caused a division between India and Pakistan has given birth to never ending distances.
Political people create distances and the result has to be borne by the common man, I will never tolerate this Ammi!
It is very surprising, an educated and sincere daughter like you, cannot understand even on explaining so much.
Daughter, If it suddenly starts raining while walking on the road then man becomes helpless and takes the support of some or wall and you also did the same thing.
This is not true father, He didn't force me in any way.
He was risking his life to leave me till Lahore.
You don't know father, It is difficult to find a big hearted person like him in the whole world.
And a helpless and compelled father like me too.
Daughter, I can completely understand that it will take at least some months for you to come out of what happened in the past.
This will not be possible father, Please send me back to my husband.
Saku!Our every step goes forward and now you have that step of political opportunity whose steps can go till the highest chair of politics.
I want to see you become the future of Pakistan.
How will I explain to you father, Now my future is my family, my home.
Come Khan sir, Id Mubarak.
Sakina still has not come, go and see please.
A lot of personalities of the city are present in this Id festivities, if you will not be decent then there will be great humiliation of the family.
Stop, one does not leave the support of hope so soon daughter!
If you will take care of the happiness of Malik jaan then Munni sahiba, he will understand the condition of your heart too.
This is, the editor of the famous newspaper ' Jung ' here Mister Hirdat Sahab.
I am printing the story of the atrocities committed on you in India on the front page of my newspaper child!
May hell break loose on that Jat who kept you in hell.
Now I am awaiting that day eagerly Ashraf sahab, when the reins of the administration will be in the hands of Sakina.
You are doing the right thing Sarafraj, If the spice of compassion adds to governance then the cooking pot gets even more enticing.
You changed the whole game by not signing on the child's visa.
Yes, I did not let the visa get cleared.
Because I cannot see you with that Jat.
I did a great mistake that I came with you for the sake of love.
If I had known that in lieu of this love my family will get a punishment greater than death then I would never have come here.
This high status, these luxuries, a high position in the government, is all these punishment?
Know this thing, I will not let you mix this widespread business, this political prestige into ashes.
Whether you want it or not , cry or scream , you have to stay in Pakistan now.
If this is your decision father, then alright, I will not go to India, will not even call, will not even write a letter.
I will just wait for him, because I know, he will definitely come to take me one of these days.
That, that Indian will come here, that Jat, our enemy, who bled us.
He will come to our country, our land, I swear on God even the news of the death of that Jat will not reach India.
Sir, So many weeks have passed, let me have my visa back.
Now I have brought the papers of my marriage from the Gurudwara too.
Nothing will come from this Tara Singh, I have told you many times before also that the government of both countries considers marriages taking place during Partition as illegal.
If my and Sakina's marriage is fake then is my child here is also fake ?
By frequently commuting from Amritsar to Delhi our pockets have been emptied.
Oh God , You have come again to trouble me , what mess you create everyday.
I have become a spectacle Iqbal sir, You had said that you will make a visa for my child in three days.
I will finish your everyday matter.
Listen carefully to what I am saying , I have orders from above that you will not be allowed to go to Pakistan.
Iqbal sir, If there will not be a stamp on a paper then will Tara Singh not go to Pakistan?
No force, no border can stop me from making my child meet his mother.
You will go to Pakistan, you are crazy, that too for the woman who left you.
I did not trust those people from the beginning, I just gave in to your insistence.
I will get her right now.
Mummy also left and went, now you are also leaving and going, I will also come.
Gullu, How are you, Is everything alright?
The train of life is running my love!
I swear I miss you a lot.
Biji used to say that I have two sons, one Kake, and another Gullu.
I know Gullu, But I don't want to be some problem for you.
Oh, a friend is an assistance for a friend, is respite, I swear if I get my own way, then I will take all your troubles upon myself.
But what to do Kake, The height of Ashraf Ali is higher than the skies and we have no height before him.
Make your parents happy girl, the procession is waiting outside.
Why are you burning it, You are the qazi right, you work is, to listen to the yes or no and leave.
Don't forget this, it is also the duty of the qazi to stop a crime.
A crime is that, which you have done, in our religion when both the boy and girl are not Muslim their marriage is considered illegal.
A breath can forget to come into the body, can forget coming out in the morning, you can forget your God, but that I forget him, that is impossible.
If I could die then I would have long ago.
But I know that he will come here enduring a thousand difficulties, will call me.
How did you dare keep a foot inside our country?
I will cut you in so many pieces that you won't be recognized, you people had shed a lot of blood of your brothers.
Did you people not shed the blood of our people, you had killed my parents, my sisters everyone.
But that was a madness which passed, today I have come to take my love, I have come to take the mother of my child.
I have forgotten the hatred, you too forget it.
Forget the hatred, That too of you Indians, if I could have my way I would blow each Indian with a bullet.
Which Indians will you kill with bullets, Because of us Indians, you people have an existence.
The whole world knows that during Partition we have given you 65 crore rupees only then did you get some relief.
You don't have the capacity to take shelter from rain, you all are talking of shooting!
Be a father and give away your daughter, only that is desirable for everybody.
Else, if today this Jat gets angry then hundreds will die with him.
You will have to accept two conditions of ours.
First condition, you will have to accept Islam.
Second condition, you will have to live here in Pakistan only.
If you can become a Hindu for him, then can he not become Muslim for you?
If Islam is acceptable to you then its ok, say Islam Zindabad, say Pakistan Zindabad.
Now say Hindustan Murdabad.
Your Pakistan remains forever , I have no objection tot hat , but our Hindustan was forever , is forever and will remain forever.
Forgive me son, In the greed for government I had forgotten the biggest religion humanity.
A film titled ' Swadeshi Andolan ' was showcased in the Town Hall of Kolkata on 22 September 1905.
Historians consider it to be the first film of India.
In it there was a picture of some leading men associated with the domestic movement.
Jamshedji Framji Madan is an important name in the history of Indian Film History.
Madan is the first Indian,who in 1902 began bioscope show by pitching a tent in an open ground of Kolkata.
Abdul Yusuf Ali of Surat initiated tourist cinema in the country.
A film ' The life of Christ ' was showcased in 1910 in American-Indian P.B. Mehta's theatre.
In 1912 Ramchandra Gopal Torane (Dada Saheb Torane)made the first feature film ' Pundalik '.
When the trend of silent cinema was prevailing, then we were not tied in the bond of any language.
As our steps set off from silent towards talking cinema, some alterations came in the presentation of song-music.
Artists performing onscreen themselves would sing in accordance with the scene and instrumentalists would play hiding in some bushes or camps.
In the decade of thirties many new experiments were performed in the history of hindi cinema of which one we know as playback singing.
R.C. Boral was born in a famous musician family on 19 October 1903.
His father Lalchand Boral was a famous Pakhavaj player of that time.
He deserves the credit of being the first musical cartoon film maker along with being the first music composer who began playback singing.
' Bhulere Sheshe ' , ' Lakh Taka ' , and ' Bhola Master ' are there in the three cartoon feature films produced by him.
R.C. Boral died on 25 November 1981.
Two Dada Saheb were born in the history of Indian Film history.
One Ramchandra Gopal Torne aka dada Saheb Torne and second, Dhundiraj Govind Phalke aka Dada Saheb Phalke.
There is a lot of similarity in both of them.
First this that both were from Maharashtra.
Both fanatical art lovers associated with theatre and their willpower was also similar.
Spread and development of cinema in India was included in important priorities of both.
If we talk about Dada Saheb Phalke then even he wanted to make a film on Ram or Krishna.
But even he had the same problem as Dada Saheb Torne had , of money.
Here both of them had problems, of money and of artists, especially there was an acute shortage of female artists.
Forget about women working in films during those days bringing any art from on stage was considered a sign of uncivilised behaviour.
After a lot of churning Phalke made up his mind to film mythological tale of Satyavadi Raja Harishchandra.
Approximately two months later returned to India on 1 April 1912 after receiving training in film production from London.
He brought along raw negative film also with Williamson camera, printing, processing machine.
Encountered one gentleman who got ready to help financially.
As soon as money problem was solved came the turn of selection process of characters.
Phalke wanted that this role should only be played by some female artist.
The attempt was wasted, even a prostitute refused to come in front of the camera.
Eventually it was decided that this role will be made to play by a male artist only.
Search began as to who that man will be anyway?
After continued attempts since many days his eyes fell on a cook in an Iranian restaurant.
His postures were somewhat like women.
That cook became the first actress of the film able to receive the designation of first feature film of India, whose name was' Salunke '.
No less effort was invested for the role of third important character Rohitashch (son of Harishchandra and Taramati)in this story.
Seeing no alternative finally Phalke made his son Bhalachandra Phalke play this role.
He again had to face financial problem while moving towards the last stage of shooting.
In this time of crisis the only help was provided by his wife Kaki Phalke.
Kaki Phalke gave strength to complete this film by selling off all her jewellery leaving alone a Mangalsutra.
After this much sacrifice and struggle this film was successfully completed.
Its press show was held in Mumbai on 21 April 1913.
It is in this press show that he revealed that name of this film is' Raja Harishchandra '.
In 18 May 1913 ' Raja Harishchandra ' was also released in that very Coronation Theatre where, about a year before this date ' Pundalik ' was released.
Audiences liked it a lot, this film ran in Coronation theatre for 23 days continuously.
In human history many such great people have been born the correct assessment of whose contribution could not be done during their lifetime.
Counting of Gurudutt the immortal producer, director and actor of Hindi cinema is also done among such great people.
Within a few years after his death he was counted amongst the greatest people of world cinema.
Without Gurudutt the list of top notch film producers of India is meaningless.
Not only this, today any famous international film festival is considered incomplete without showcasing Gurudutt's films.
Special screenings of Gurudutt's films have been organised in almost all prestigious international film festivals.
Times magazine included his name in world's 100 greatest film personalities.
Many books have been written on his life and achievements in Hindi, English, Bangla, Marathi, Kannada, Gujarati and other languages.
In his lifetime his films received National award and Filmfare award also and they were appreciated in film festivals as well.
Gurudutt was born in Bangalore (now Bengaluru) on 9 July , 1925.
His father was a teacher in Bangalore but in 1930 he took up a job in Burma oil ocmpany and began to live in Kolkata.
In this way Gurudutt's childhood was spent in Bengal.
Both Gurudutt's parents were of artistic interest, therefore he received literary and artistic values in family itself.
His maternal uncle Balakrishna Benegal laid a great impact on his sensitive mind.
He only took him towards films.
Gurudutt passed his matriculation in 1941 at the age of 13.
To help in household expenses he began to work at a Marwari's shop.
in the year 1942 he received entry in the dance institute of famous dancer Udayshankar and he went to Almoda.
Very soon due to his dedication and fascination for dance he became Udayshankar's favourite student.
Gurudutt also played a short role in the film Kalpana produced by Udayshankar.
Around that very time Gurudutt's father got transferred in Mumbai and they began to reside in Matunga with family.
The string of Gurudutt's dance training and performance continued in Mumbai also.
During this time only Gururdutt developed interest in films and he saw many films.
he also went to Chennai to get work in films but after being unsuccessfulreturned to Mumbai.
It is then that his maternal uncle introduced him to Prabhat Studio's partner Baburam Pai and he was employed in Prabhat as an art director.
It was in Prabhat only that he met Devanand and Rehman.
It was there only that Dev Anand promised Gurudutt that if he ever makes a film then he will hand its direction to Gurudutt.
In the year 1944 he entered the field of acting and played roles in films Chaand and Lakharani.
After some time he got a chance in the film ' Hum Ek Hain '.
He was also made co-director of this film.
Gurudutt was also the dance director of the film.
Gurudutt again came on streets after Prabhat studio was shut down.
After making rounds of many studios he got work in the recently opened Fames pictures and studio as an assistant of Anadinath Banerjee.
Then he went to Bombay talkies and became co-director to Gyan Mukherjee, director of super hit film Kismat.
Songs and music of the film were also very popular.
During the recording of songs for Baazi only Gurudutt and Geeta Roy came near to each other and their introduction changed into nuptial knot.
After this Gurudutt established his independent film production company ' Gurudutt films' and made Aar Paar under its banner.
This was the first film in which he played the role of director and producer along with that of actor.
There was freshness as well in the story.
In 1955 he made a comic film by the name of Mr. and Mrs.55 in which he exposed the women who claimed to be social reformists.
For the film's screening he went to Hyderabad.
He was extremely impressed by Whaeeda Rahman's dance and beauty and signed her for his next film CID upon meeting her.
He signed a contract for 5 years with Waheeda.
The cine world will be indebted to Gurudutt for the discovery of the empress of talented and natural beauty like Waheeda Rahman.
After that began the period of grand and classic films.
In 1957 only he made masterpeice Pyaasa.
This film was supreme in every aspect like acting, songs-music,photography, dialogues, direction etc and became superhit.
He knew English , Kannada , Hindi , Bengali, Marathi and Urdu languages.
He was fond of Bengali literature since childhood only.
Along with his own films Gurudutt played lead role in some other films as well.
He was playing the role of Majnu in K. Asif's film Love and God but due to death the film was left incomplete.
Later Sanjeev Kumar played that role.
As much as Gurudutt remained transparent in his personal life,his death was equally mysterious.
At 6 a.m. on 10 October, 1964 he was found dead in his flat on Peddar road.
His elder brother stated that his brother committed suicide while his son Arun Dutt called it an accident.
Being a skillful director he accurately recognised Indian audiences' interest towards music.
Gurudutt has given a lot to the world in the form of a good human being and successful actor and film producer.
Anil Kapoor who rose as a star in the decade of 1980 had actually worked as a child actor in three films.
These three film were ' Shatranj ' , ' Humaare Tumhaare ' and ' Shakti '.
But the truth was that Anil Kapoor did not received any success as a child actor.
With bag in hands Anil Kapoor used to roam from one city to the other.
Anil Kapoor himself used to tell producers - directors that he wanted to be an actor.
Finally after difficult struggle Anil Kapoor got an opportunity to play hero in ' Vo 7 din ' and this film was released in 1983.
This first film of Anil Kapoor was a success but he was not getting new films easily.
Somehow he got two films' Andar Bahar ' and ' Love marriage ' but both of them were unsuccessful.
Anil Kapoor's struggle became more difficult.
' Pyar kiya hai pyar karenge ' was also a successful film but could not make Anil Kapoor a star.
Finally ' Mr. India ' made Anil Kapoor a star in 1987.
This was the biggest hit film of Anil Kapoor's career till then.
Indian media and entertainment industry are one of the fastest developing industries.
Initially where there was only one channel named Doordarshan under the control of government, now there are four hundred channels working countrywide.
More than one thousand films are made in various languages in India and there are approximately more than 10,000 cinema halls.
Where this industry was of Rupees 58 , 080 Crore in the year 2009 now by 2005 it was of 35,650 crores.
In this way the growth rate from 2005 to 2009 was 13 percent.
The Indian market of television is growing.
Every passing year new channels are being launched and after recession of 2009 now growth rate of advertising has come to two units.
Now the government is paying its full attention to digitalisation.
Now there are 6 big companies in the distribution sector which are separate from DD Direct.
Only one company was there in 2003 in this field.
The percentage of digital cable customers is going down although for digitalisation the government has set guideline rules countrywide.
Whenever the work for digitalisation is over there will be transparency in the entire network and manifold increase in the revenue.
9 crore copies of newspapers are broadcast in India and this is one of the largest spread in the entire world.
It is at second position after China.
It will be wrong to say no attempts have been undertaken for digitisation in India and readers were not given online newspaper.
But enough progress has not been achieved in this direction.
There is online presence of most newspapers and its readers are also increasing.
But newspaper readers of India like to read newspapers for news, not internet.
Nowadays majority of media and entertainment industry sector are paying attention to entering in small towns.
during the year 2009 development of newspaper industry has decreased but regional newspapers increased and became local.
The development of newspapers increased in the year 2010 and their share in gross income from advertisements also rose.
Apart from this the interest of advertisers increased towards newspapers of second and third grade.
Newspaper industry is understanding the importance of this matter and is initiating its editions in specialised fields.
The biggest challenge in front of print media is the expenditure of newsprint.
The cost of newsprint is a major factor of newspaper income.
Films in India are a popular medium for entertainment.
In the case of films made every year, Indian film industry is among the big countries of the world.
But Indian film industry had to see rainy days of 2009-2010 for two years contiguously and its development stopped.
Its major reason was the lack of good films.
Box office's income was effected due to closing down of one screen theatres and IPL season of cricket.
Number of good films being made till during 2010 remained very less.
Maximum radio industrialists of today are associated with big media houses.
Initially radio programs were restricted to radio sets.
Now FM is being heard through mobile phones.
Recently in central cabinet permission for development of third stage of FM radio has been granted.
One major challenge for radio industry is to get to know the number of its audiences.
Music , publicity outside home , Internet advertising , animation , gaming and visual effects are included in the other sections of media and entertainment industry.
A big portion of income coming from music in India comes from film music.
The sale of independent music albums is quite less.
Animation and gaming industry in India increased in 2004-05.
Gaming is growing rapidly despite challenges.
Social networking has proved to be a boon for gaming industry and many online consumers have become addicted to it.
Nowadays there is tremendous inclinations towards social networking as well and it is increasing wildly.
It is making the consumer more aware.
Share of advertisements in Gross Domestic Production in India is mere 0.53 percent whereas in America it is 1.08 percent and 0.09 percent in Japan.
With this we get a hint that there are many possibilities of growth in this area.
Rani said that I have no problem with any Khan in fact I have learnt a lot from all the three Khans.
Shahrukh and Aamir have taught me a lot.
Shahrukh has always been very supportive and as a co-star he has always taught me that how should one work better.
Aamir has been like my teacher.
When i had begun my career then he had taught me form the very basic how to improve acting.
I am also doing Talaash film with him and even now I feel that I have to learn a lot from him.
Rani also admired Salman.
She said that Salman Khan is a very good friend of mine.
I have a very good and different bonding with all the three Khans and I know all the Khans like me a lot.
Rani Mukherji had previously worked in Ghulam film with Asmir.
Rani and Aamir's career have seen a lot of ups and downs from this film till now.
Both now perform very mature and untangled characters.
Rani had done Chori Chori Chupe Chupke film with Salman Khan and with Shahrukh Rani's pair is one the hit pairs of bollywood.
Both have worked in hit films like Kuchh Kuchh Hota hai, Chalte Chalte.
Now the question that arises is that if Rani's film Aiyya will be bale to gather crowd at box office.
Rani's this film Aiyya is releasing in October.
The good thing is this that opposite Rani there is no film of a big star.
Yes , Preity Zinta's film Ishq in Paris will definitely fight with her film.
Otherwise also Rani Mukherji and Preity Zinta's cat fight is pretty old in bollywood and now once more they are facing each other.
Because of this reason there is expectation of a fierce tiff between them.
Karan Johar is that name of the film industry, to work with whom every artist yearns.
Today whichever Khan he wants, can make him a part of his films.
He considers only those films a success which can be remembered for a long time.
Before this good story with good music was considered important for success in Bollywood.
Now along strong direction with a good script is the real strength with which you can rule bollywood without a star as well.
There is no big star in Karan Johar's film Student of the year.
All are debutantes but association of Karan Johar's name with this film makes the film big in itself.
In this Mahesh Bhatt's daughter Aliya, director David Dhawan's son Varun, Siddhart Malhotra and Boman Irani's son Kayoz are acting.
Kajol's presence in Karan's film has almost become a tradition.
Karan's statement is that he does not want to break this tradition because I am a man who works on habits.
Eid is to Salman's name , Diwali to Shahrukh's name and Aamir's film talaash will be released around Christmas.
So in a way these Khans have claimed Indian festive seasons to their name so there is no place left for the rest of the directors.
Eventually 19 October was the date left when Karan was compelled to release this film.
Crores of rupees have been invested in Indian film industry.
Here lakhs of people get direct or indirect unemployment.
Different from this is the story of the birth of film industry.
Loui Lumite and his brother exhibited six silent films at Watson Hotel of Mumbai on 7 July, 1886.
After watching these silent films strong interest was produced in these people on these subjects.
As a result H.M. Bhatavedekar in Mumbai and Heeralal Sen in Kolkata made many short silent films.
The credit of making first complete silent film Raja Harishchandra in India goes to Dada Saheb Phalke (Dhundiraj Govind Phalke).
Phalke was an extraordinary dilettante.
He was film producer, dialogue writer, cameraman and distributor all.
He is called father of Indian film industry.
After Raja Harishchandra he made many films.
In the beginning of the decade of twenties 27 films per year began to be made.
During these days itself production of articulate films began.
Initially maximum films were made in Hindi.
After this films began to be made in Bengali, Oriya, Assamese, Marathi, Tamil, Telegu, Kannada and other languages as well.
In the year 1931 Ardeshar Irani produced the first vocal film Aalamara in the country.
People exhibited interest in this new medium of amusement.
Therefore cinema houses were established in almost all cities of the country and swiftness came in film production.
There were only seven songs in Aalamara.
In Indrasabha their number increased to 71.
After some time that a film was made on Sharat's novel Devdas.
This film changed people's interest.
A tremendous change was seen in the presentation and dialogues of films in the decade of thirties.
Devaki Bose, V. Shanta Ram , Sohrab Modi and Mehboob have made many good films.
Among these Maya, Achhut kanya, Duniya na Mane, Adhikaar, Vidyapati are noteworthy.
A tremendous increase in film production took place in film production in the decade of thirties.
During this time India also had to deal with worldwide recession.
Soon after being over recession second world war started.
During the war this point was agreed upon that films can become a major medium for publicity and to construct public opinion.
Many constructions were done to encourage war efforts.
Money rained in film industry.
During this time only import of films to foreign nations began in limited number.
Some time after this Mohan Bhavani made film Vasantsena based on famous Sanskrit play Mricchakatika.
Its next year Irani made one more colour film Mother India.
Production of colour films in the country at a big scale began in the decade of fifties.
To attract people's attention these were full of love scenes, emotions , sensational incidents.
Rarely any film was made on serious social problems, life struggles and problems of downtrodden , farmers and tribals.
In the decade of fifties film inspection committee was constituted to bring improvement in film industry , to increase its standards and to provide it with strength.
Finance corporation was established to arrange finances for the production of good films.
To promote production of good films in big cities of the country film societies were established.
Crucial help was received in raising the standards of Indian films with this contribution of government.
Indian cinema , its market and influence today is not concentrated till the frontiers of the nation only.
It has made a place for itself in the world cinema market as well and is working to strengthen its grasp.
Cinema is such a medium whose influence is two sided.
On one side it influences country's language , culture and society also gets influenced by them.
If we throw a glance at the history of world cinema then one comes to know that first time cinema was eexhibited in Grand cafe of Paris on 28 December, 1895.
Then was it was named as cinematography.
After six months of this only Indian people got the opportunity to see cinema for the first time.
In the advertisement published in the newspapers of that time it was given names like miracle of the century and world's wonder.
Indian cinema has entered not only the countries of Europe and America but till South America , Africa , Australia and New Zealand.
With development and availability of means of telecommunication - mobile phone and facilities like 3G this medium is now entering everywhere.
With this there are possibilities of influence area of cinema increasing more.
Even today traditional methods are employed to arrange investment in this business.
In it a part of available numbers of investment and business can be kept in the domain of speculations.
In investment in this business even today there is importance of unofficial investment area.
In the initial stage of film production usually this business would come through family and contacts.
It was that time when film was seen as a medium of social reforms instead of business.
There was arrangement of providing funds to artists working in films and this amount was limited to hundreds and thousands only.
This period was not of big budget films.
But in them aspects of story, art and music were given more importance in comparison to earning profit.
In this profession the system of investing money on a big scale moved forward rapidly along with making of multi-starrer films.
In the partnership of investment and profit instead of banking area other ways are used at big scale even today.
A new period of regulation has begun of this industry after the entry of big companies and corporate in this business.
This is being done in a more professional way since after professional managers became partners in this work.
Ways of watching film have also changed along with changing India.
Cinema houses have not remained limited to entertainment only.
They along with shopping mall tradition have become an inseparable part of entertainment's entire market.
Today India has become such a nation where maximum films are produced int he world.
Apart from Hindi , audiences of films being made in other Indian languages have the largest number in the world.
At this moment nationwide in the world of cinema around 20 lakh poeple have received employment directly or indirectly.
Indian cinema market has been estimated as around two and a half American dollars.
they are attempted to be made to be worth filling front rows through violence , crime and popular music.
The experts of this profession claim that rate of fees of celebrity actors is increasing each year.
Official information about which actor received how much money for which film is not generally available.
Both those who pay money and those who receive do not supply official information about this.
But figures like these are made available by people associated with market and professional area.
For one film five crores or even more than that is also paid.
Direct influence of film industry and its business is being laid on management and development of television and radio especially FM channels.
In this age Indian film world has not only maintained its topicality in fact is looking for opportunities to move ahead from this.
Today foreign producers and directors are coming forth to make movies on India and subjects of Indian background.
Undoubtedly there are professional aspects to this collaboration and adjustment , they are extremely important from the view point of industry and business.
Radhe Krishna, Radhe Krishna, is someone there, see brothers, this shopkeeper is beating up Kunwar ji.
Sir I am your servent.
Oh yes you only asked me to massage.
Oh yes, I had only asked you to massage, I am so weird!
Hey people, u should now get going, There is no fault of Pandit ji in this.
Say , did you see any girl for me ?
Bhola, in the afternoon of this summer.
You are young , it is your age to enjoy , go to some garden and read Chandrakanta or Behraam Daaku or Presmshastra while sitting under a tree.
Uncle, you always teach me bad habits.
Then why did you took the name of Premshastra?
I am weird, Premshastra is name of a book which all young people read.
If you do not want to read then don't read but get out of this suffocating air.
Son what is the use of having a garden at a river bank near home , go to the garden and come back after taking in fresh air.
But I have eaten stomach full uncle!
My naive newphew you are innocent to the core , one makes health with a walk.
Oh it won't be spoiled, am I not saying it.
Okay , if you say so I will go.
You are here till now , very good get some fishes , good good.
Caught, I caught some fresh fat fish!
Oh-oh this is some mermaid.
Oh so you inserted this line to catch some mermaid.
I came to catch some fish.
Sir, since yesterday you have been looking at this picture all the while.
Hey Hajuri , Some face itself is like that the entire is left open.
Now I have made a decision that I will surely make her the mistress of the house.
If parents of the mistress do not agree ?
I am weired i will send Bhole sir to garden.
Bhole , I am a Rajpoot whoever I leave once leave for ever.
If you are a rajpoot then I am also a rajpoot.
How can I leave my aunt , she has brought me up like a kid.
Hey Bhola its you, Hey how come you are carrying luggage , is your uncle fine ?
What will happen to uncle he is getting young with each passing day.
I am saying right aunt that is why I have come here after leaving that home.
Hey then who will take care of him ?
There is someone coming to take care of her , new aunt.
Madhava uncle this house in front was vacant wasn't it ?
Bhole , till the time we all dont see that girl together you cannot fall in love with that girl.
Bhole, what time will this window open ?
Oh how hot it is Radha, Please open this window a bit.
I swear you if Ihave to break a bow I will break a bow as well.
Sir, why don't we teach Bhola music ?
Now I am 26 years old , will learn in two days sir.
Bhole , do you remember lyrics of any film's song ?
Bhole , I will sing this son , you move lips , as if you are singing , My voice your face , you understand.
He considers himself a big singer , he is not even the dust of my master's shoe.
I will teach him such a lesson , such a lesson that he will forget all notes.
Did you hear , everything has been messed up.
With so much love had she come to the window , had locked her eyes with mine.
Wanted to talk to me and you closed the door and poor she went away sulking.
Master , Oh-oh where were you ?
Haven't seen your face since a week , do you know how bad my condition became.
Your condition is not good for me !
I had gone to Rameshwaram , while coming back God gave me fruit as well.
Which fruit , Ramfal , Seetafal , tell me what was the need ot go there ?
I did a mistake I will not go again , if i go i ' ll tak eyou along.
Alright come fast , make us hear a powerful song on harmonium first.
What is the need of a song , first we will talk and then I will sing a song.
Oh-oh , your talks go to hell , first sing a song.
Oh what will he sing , tell him to ring bells in the temple , bells !
Let them see , let them hear , they should also know what a song is , Tansen's prodigy.
If you get a break from chess then only household work will occur to you.
You didn't know today is Bindu's exam.
Why didn't you call the driver early ?
Bindu's mother , everything happens at its due time.
Your now and then has made my life difficult.
Only five minutes are remaining , check your papers.
Bindu , how did the exam go ?
I feel like Bindu will fail this year as well.
Fine , at least you will think of her marriage under this pretext.
You will have to retaliate , your life is damned, till the time you do not slap Bindu even harder.
I and slap Bindu , no sir this is not not possible for me.
Think this that you are Arjun at this time and master Lord Krishna who is giving you initiation in work.
Bhole think , think appropriately that you have only two ways in front of you either you slap Bindu or our friendship is over.
But sir, what should I do , what should I do she is also dear to me and you are also dear to me.
Bhole we are four and she is one , will you leave all of us for onw , say Come on say Bhole.
Lady , Nowadays your voice come from inside of my heart.
Come with me towards garden for a while.
Lady an astrologer met me.
He told me that my today will pass nicely.
But he told me , my day day will pass through badly.
You forgot he stays in the window in front of you window.
It is the same ruffian ,who is bothering me since so many days.
This is why you have been called here that you should take some decision.
What decision will I take ji , I am a dance master not any lawyer ji , nor any judge of court ji.
If I take government's law in my hand then government will put me behind bars for sx months.
Bindu the matter is like this , that I didn't come to slap you out of my own will.
My friends forced me.
Oh , so you had complained about me to your friends.
No Bindu I didn't complain.
I only related my heart's condition.
One has to relate his heart's condition to someone or the other.
As your name so are you.
Bindu , you turned out to be very cunning , by keeping me busy in love chat you got me beaten up by ruffians.
I ' m saying the truth , I have no hand in this Bhola , Bhola.
Doctor is there any danger to his life ?
He is a young man , then what if a little blood has been shed.
It is possible he develops fever later on.
Sir tell me who attacked me.
I don't recognise him , I know nothing.
Moaning voices are coming from the neighbourhood.
I think he is completely alone.
Bindu's mother we will have to go and see.
You say it right neighbours should help in bad times, lets go fast.
Oh he has a very high fever , is there a thermometer in the house ?
Bindu child run and get a thermometer.
Get along an ice bag also.
Oh, why are you giving thermometer to me put it in the mouth.
Please open your mouth a little , have to put in themrometer.
Child , it is morning now now go to your home and rest , you spent the entire night awake.
Tell me this that night who kept ice bag on my head , who massaged my soles with her palms , who opened my mouth and put thermometer.
I kept thinking that it ws my Aunt.
Oh my God , now that you know drink medicine.
Hail Radhe - Krishna hail Radhe - Krishna, Mister did you recognise me ?
From your clothes it seems you are a priest.
You are in need of a groom for your girl.
Thi is why I came to see you.
Bindu , Bindu child , I had to ask you something.
Have got you a photo , see to it what do you think ?
Oh , then why do you cry ?
I haven't approved yet , I came to know your will.
Then my will is something is else.
Bhole hey tell how are you ?
The thing is this sir , now Bindu has also begun to love me.
What, Am I that bad that she gives me love and i betray her.
What is your opinion sir ?
See Bhole I am of the opinion that till the time it works like this let it work , tell her everythign after wedding.
Hello happy anniversary to you.
Thankyou , you had promised , that you will sing a song on my anniversary.
See , let us leave this song etc.
See the girls are dying out of excitement , I have promised all of them that you will sing song.
Today I am very happy , say what brought you here ?
Uncle you are elder , had to take an important consultation from you.
Son , You did this right , that you opened our eyes , otherwise a huge sin would have been committed through us.
Master , Right now I was thinking about you only.
Master you are very innocent.
When you are require dhere then you are thinking of going.
Mother , he is the one , that day whom I was talking about.
Daughter , If this is your choice and this is your decision then in your happiness is our happiness.
Master , come upstairs with me , i will explain everything to you.
Whatever you have to talk about do it fast.
Now wherever we go will go together master.
Now you are not only my dance master , in fact you are about to become the owner of my destiny aslo.
NO , I am not owner , I am your servent.
Oh , You didn't understand , day after tomorrow I am going to get married to you.
What is this Bindu , Since so many days I have been applying , you never gave a reply , today I didn't apply , you reply.
This is how it happens in matters of love.
Oh Bindu , say it slowly , if the enemy hears it then things will mess up.
Lord , if we do not make the enemy listen then how are we going to make him jealous.
Have to make them jealous , you tell me.
My marriage has been fixed with Bindu and you have been fixed in the house.
Bindu , Is he saying the truth ?
Oh yes , you should come for sure , bring your friends and relatives too , its a feast to everyone from my side.
Sir sir , do something , now even the procession has come.
Bhole Bhole , now only one alternative is left.
Aunt , Aunt , terrible thing happened , Bhola committed suicide !
Bhola , Bhola what did you do ?
If I had known that you will take your life for my love then I wouldn't have done this ever.
So did he take his life because of you , God will never forgive you , never forgive you.
I was doing this marriage out of stubborness.
Child what did you do !
Sons of Thakur used to give their life in battle field for people , nation.
Son , sons of Rajput never give their life for the love of girls.
Hey Bindu , I have heard that your love can infuse life in a stone as well.
If you have even a little bit of love for Bhola in your heart then this is the time to confess it.
It is possible that because of your two love filled words , Bhola comes to life again, Bhola comes to life again.
Bhola I am your from the depth of my heart.
If you do not come back then I will also not be able to live without you.
Bhola you are alive , Bhola !
Be blessed be blessed , Bindu you are Savitri ,you are Savitri , Your love snatched Bhole's life from Yamraj.
Hindustan , History is witness that dynasties thrive on this land through dose of blood only.
Since 1011 many have trampled it beneath their feet after robbing it from time to time.
In the year 1450 Mughals stepped in who made it their home , gave it love and decorated.
Mughal reign which began from emperor Babar reached Akbar via Humayun who acquired the highest standard in Mughal regime.
Jalalludin Muhammad Akbar, was alone such an emperor of Mughals whose took birth on Indian land, in Rajputana in the house of a Hindu Rajput house.
On the other hand was princess Jodha , who was also born in Rajputana , in Amer.
Her father was , King Bharmal and mother , Queen Padmavati.
He had fixed Jodha's marriage with the Ratansingh the prince of Ajabgadh during childhood itself.
Rajpoot , used to be prepared to fight since childhood itself so that they could safeguard their family , house and state.
Of them was a warrior prince Sujamal , Jodha's cousin.
Sujamal loved Jodha like his real sister and used to revert at Jodha's every request.
King Bhaarmal received the throne after the death of Sujamal's father because of which Sujamal was left alone.
Similarly Princess Jodha's story also seemed like that of outside of Rajpoot Rajwada's world.
Year 1555 , it was that year when Mughal regime was jolted due to sudden death of Emperor Humayun.
Taking advantage of this opportunity King Hemu captured the throne of Delhi and then Battle of Panipat ensued.
Hemu's army was made to lose in the Battle of Panipat and in thsi way Bairam Khan made Jalaluddin take over the throne of Delhi.
To acquire Hindustan completely Bairam Khan in the next six years sent proclamation in the name of Jalaludin Muhammad to neighbouring knigdoms and provinces.
You are warned on behalf of Mughal emperor Jalaluddin Muhammad that you should hand over your kingdom with army and treasure to Mughal empire in one month.
If you deny or if the the royal proclamation is not followed then it will be considered unpardonable offence and crime.
Sir Alampanah the last notice sent by us has also returned.
Hey azeemoshan Emperor , now behead this damned one.
No Khan Baba , After the war whichever king is alive on our mercy , I can't take beheading him.
Pardon me Jahanpanah , but being a loyal servent I will exactly that which is in favour of the empire.
Jalal you have forgotten that.
The strong citadel if Mughals we have created brick by brick , you are destroying it.
The passion for loyalty at times makes a human guilty , since last many wars we are seeing rebellion in your eyes.
Today for the first time we stopped your sword , you know why , because now I want to take my decisions on my own.
I want that from today onwards after winning any battle we should treat prisoners of war from every country mercifully.
Today I declare that prisoners of war will not be made slaves.
In this country we not only have to set standards of governance but also of honesty.
We misunderstood you.
If it is so then we will have no objection to run our kingdom under your patronage.
Now it is my desire that you should shed the weight of your responsibilities and go on pilgrimage.
One more kingdom has come under our wing Alampanah.
Kings of Rajputana have refused to listen to our proclamations.
Brother Sujamal , Remember a moment's slip in a battle turns into a victory or loss.
So now my student will teach me a lesson in war policy.
Not teaching , just reminding you.
True and knowledgeable student is that one who after learning once saves it in the depth of its heart.
True, Agreed that I am a good student , but brother you are also an extremely learned teacher !
Now like a good student you will have to learn all royal ettiquetes from your m other , very soon you are going to get married.
YOu also listen to it brother , till the time father does not decalre you prince , I will not marry.
Jodha , it is not right for girls to demand such things.
I have myself heard father praising you.
You posess valour , you have won many competitions , and now your war training has also ended.
On the auspicious occassion of Dusherra gentlemen , , now is the time for some inportant declarations.
My first declaration is this that reins of Amer will be in hands of Bhagwan Das.
Second , Sujamal will work under Bhagwandas.
Now last decleration , for which all of you have been waiting.
This year on a fixed date princess Jodha and prince Ratan Singh will be engaged to each other by the grace of goddess Jambai.
Brother , I am saddened to hear this.
It might be possible that father must have been helpless.
Do not give selfishness and greed the name of helplessness.
I am not greedy for royalty , have never eyed anything that is not mine.
I had no objection in sharing the reign with Bhagwandas and Mohansingh.
I want my honour , prestige if I do not get that then remember Jodha , even the setting sun has a lot of heat.
I will talk to emperor Aalamhuzoor on this issue at the right time.
Will also request that after talking ot King Bharmal you are crowned on the throne of Amer.
I will not be able to forget you favour , Sharifuddin Hussain !
You will have to help us attack Delhi after being crowned on the throne of Amer.
But you have been married to emperor's sister , right ?
Yes , I have been married to Jalalluddin's sister Bakshi Bano Begum.
After that only I have been made an officer of Ajmer , Nagaur and Mewat.
Do you know Sujamal , the property of water and desires is same , to keep moving ahead , now I want entire Hindustan.
Allright , I will help you , but there should be no bloodshed in my coronation.
The very same thing happened which I had feared.
Sujamal has decided to snatch my throne with the help of Sharifuddin.
Because of war destruction will hover on our heads , thousands of women will be widowed and children orphaned.
How intelligent is it to throw innocents in the gulf of destruction ?
Chandrabhan ji , wouldn't it be better to befriend Jalaluddin by entering into an alliance with Mughals.
If you do this then you will betray only , there can be no better example of treachery than this.
It is sad O King , but I should tell you one thing , I honour Mughal treaty from the perspective of saving our people from defeat , death and destruction.
you are welcome here at Sanganer O king !
We informed dear king as soon as we received the message form Chandrabhan ji.
Jahanpanah, King Bharmal of Amer is waiting for sir's feet.
Greetings Shahanshah , I bow to your valour.
We request you to come inside our pavilion.
Shahenshah I want to run the administration of Amer safely under your guidance.
I wish to talk to you one more subject.
You will have to hold my daughter princess Jodha's hand and Shehanshah this will mean Mughal relation being in an engagement with Amer.
I can understand that why you are silent , perhaps.
Not at all , to present the alliance in such a straightforward manner , I praise your clear-heartedness , and I am thankful to this upgrading of my honour.
I will be able to send you a reply only after visiting dargaah of Hazrat Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti.
Jalal, some altercations took place before us in the rajse of Ajmer.
Some Rajputs blocked the way of people visiting dargah , because of this tension spread.
Communal rivalry like these can anytime turn into some serious condition.
Is there a need for more security on the way to Ajmer ?
Khan Baba , My message to King Bharmal fo Amer should be sent that I am ready to make his daughter my Shareek-e-Hayaat begum.
Especially say this as well that I accept this alliance with happiness for the sake of nation's sustenance and unity.
But Sir think about this that they are Rajput , hindu , how can this relation be possible ?
Sharifuddin , I have taken this decision only after paying a lot of attention to it.
You know Khan Baba , that for a very long time our elder patron Bairam Khan Baba managed the Mughal sultanate by using my name.
Every moment I kept thinking that why couldn't the previous emperors settle on the land of Hindustan.
Till now I was in this dilemma only that how should dreams be achieved.
Knew about the destination , didn't know about the path.
This invitation for Marriage , this talk of relationship is an indication of God's help.
Father I had nothing to say even then when i was engaged to Ratansingh , prince of Ajabgadh.
Controlled my heart , and made my mind for him.
But now I am being made to wear vermilion of such hands at whose place there is not even a word for vermilion.
Jodha , Being your father I can read your mind , wherein prince Ratansingh resides , but they themselves called off this relationship.
I do not feel good while saying this but you will have to drink this poison not for your father but for your people , for the entire Dhundhar.
I have heard that invitation of brother's wedding has come from Agra.
Cannot understand how come everything happened so fast !
Ammi has gone on a tour of the estate , I should go soon , so many preparations are there.
Keep your emotions under control begum , do you even have an inclination with whom is this marriage going to take place ?
I have decided , before deciding on this marriage I want to meet the emperor first.
I don't know , pardon me he refused to even tell me.
How should I express my gratitude that you took the trouble to come here and listen to me.
I have two demands , on the acceptance of those only will I be able to marry you.
My first demand is that I will be given complete independence to maintain my religion , my belief and conduct.
Under no circumstances will I be forced to change my religion.
I will be allowed to take my Lord's idol along.
A temple will be established in my chamber for its consecration.
Beloved daughter of King Bharmal has posed two demands in front of me , on the approval of those will she say yes to get married to me.
For the first time today I received the complete feeling of Rajpoot elegance and honour.
I salute to the fearless passion and simplicity of the princess of Amer.
I should tell her this that even I am a native of this land , on which she took birth and even I hold that emotion.
My decision is that I agree to this alliance with Princess Jodha of Amer and her demands will be met word by word.
This wedding of yours has brought a new gift for the pilgrims visiting Ajmer.
You can free yourself by breaking off this knot of relation.
Divorce is at your place , at our place it is a relationship of seven births.
I am grateful to you that you honoured my demands , but don't know why doubts arise in my mind.
I could not associate my mind with this wedding , because of this reason also that our religion , our culture is different.
I have undoubtedly said yes but till now my mind has not permitted me to be one.
I respect you , give regard to your feelings.
Now I will be near to you only when your heart vouches for it.
You are mother of Shahanshah-e-Hind , empress Bano Mohtarma.
God may save you from evil eye , keeps you prosperous and happy forever , Amen !
Meet her she is Mahamanga , Jalal's dai ma , to say Jalal's foster mother would be more appropriate.
Be careful daughter , Mahamanga has a seperate status , Jalal considers her above everyone else , even me.
For fifteen years in my absence she only brought up Jalal by holding him close to her heart.
Do not keep any doubt in your heart , this is your house only.
This person seeks pardon for impudence and wants to say that sir's heart is dominating his brain.
What was the obligation of tying a Hindu princess to the hem ?
That was the decision of a government Maulana , which will be in favour of everyone and in which there is goodness of our people , that should not be weighed on the scale of religion.
My concern is why was a temple constructed in the castle , this is an injury on our hearts.
Whatever I did was subject to time and situation.
The thought of empire's progress is more in my heart than you.
Who is this talking to Shehenshah ji in such a loud voice ?
This is not the reason , I have complete faith in his administrative ability.
After all Adam Khan is like his elder brother.
What I want to know is , what do you know about politics and administration ?
You were nothing , but a puppet dancing on Bairam Khan's dictats.
Don't forget that my mother has been advising you from time to time.
Is marrying an unholy Hindu girl pride of Mughal empire ?
Sujamal wandered here and there with appeal for his rights after not receiving support from Sharifuddin.
He received support , first of Prince Ratansingh of Ajabgadh and then of Rana Udaysingh.
I will erase even the name of Jodha and Jalauddin from the memories of entire Rajputana.
I am myself worried that what must Jodha be going through because of marriage.
Her Majesty , Jahanpanah has hosted a feast in your honour on the day of the peer , and has sent this advance gift as well.
This means only one thing he is trying to woo you.
As per your order all the utensils have been cleaned.
She will get Rajputi food made herself without chicken - mutton.
Due to this unwanted nuptial knot do not assume that a princess has become an empress.
Temple in Agra fort, taking over royal kitchen , I am understanding everything.
Taking over kitchen , this is every married woman's right.
Do not forget this , you have been traded with Jalal.
This must be trading for you , for me this nuptial knot is as holy as a prayer rosary.
This is why princess Jodha , Keep enjoying Mughal empire but do not even try to become a part of it.
With what authority do you command your right of being Shehanshah ji's mother ?
Yes I am his mother , I have made him drink my milk , have nurtured him by sacrificing sleep and peace.
For a very long time I have only saved Shahenshah from all troubles.
Any external power could not harm him.
During childhood he was attacked with arrows , I saved him by taking that arrow on my chest.
Anybody tries to come between me and Jalal then I will destroy him.
Jahanpanah , today I have made Daal-Baati choorma , Ker Saangri , Pakaude , Gatte , Til Papdi and Panchmel Sabzi.
Jahanpanah , Ghevar and Sohan Halwa is present before you to taste sweets.
Food is extremely tasty , feel like saying subhan allah at every bite.
Jodha , I do not feel like going but what to do this tour of kingdom is very important.
Go , and then life long bang your head against rock walls in captivity.
Shamsuddin Alga Khan has got an inclination about the manipulation that I have done in the amount of rent and tax.
Before Shamsuddin reveals everything in front of Todharmal , Shamsuddin has to be stopped.
Due to that serious crime I had to take his life , this was the demand of justice badi ammi.
I believe that Adam dared a wrong act and served its punishment.
This is why I am pardoning you Jalal.
I have knowledge that no one can come between you and the royal seat, and according to me even Jodha shouldn't dare any such act.
Enquire to who else does she write letters apart from her mother's house.
Many a times even I see her in my dreams , fearless , moving her last steps.
Her steps had never learnt to wobble.
But the most I remember are , those eyes , fearless , clear , stable , piercing deep inside.
Hey Su , there is no need to be perturbed , all preparations have been done.
Posters have been made to put at various places , it has been announced on radio as well.
Now see how many people come at auditions.
What happened ?
I didn't tell you , but the truth is this that now only I am there.
We can use one or two for unimportant roles , but Azad , Bhagat Singh can't be found till far.
Yes true , everything is my fault.
No Sonia , Its just you who is with me , its my fault.
Where did you get lost ?
Will you guys act in my film ?
Why are you people laughing , I am the hero of her film.
Oh friends , Leave these talks of patriotism , find them very boring.
Boring , these people laid their lives for freedom , for your country.
What freedom Su , have you seen the condition of this country , nobody believes.
One minute Karan , I believe , I have faith , on this country , on patriotism , otherwise why would I fight for my country ?
I am ready to lay my life for this county , I am proud of this country.
You are proud , on what on the population of the country , on corruption , on what thing are proud most ?
No country is perfect , one has to make it better.
Good morning Karan , Are you coming or are you going ?
I didn't know that you are in the city ?
I reached just an hour before.
Was a very long flight.
How is your college going on ?
Excellent Dad !
Thought something , Next year which American university will you go to ?
What are you doing Lakshman , Party high command is very happy with your work.
This demonstration that you have initiated against western civilisation , because of that the luster of rest of the youth parties has faded.
Take this , for you and for your boys.
No Mishra ji , This is not needed, I am not working for parties for money.
I sincerely believe , in my party's principles.
Bhagat Singh used to think , that too at the age of 23 years and in this young age he ascended at scaffold for his country.
Yes , the time was different then Su !
Today if you say to someone that I can lay my life for my country , you know what will people say , is you brain at its right place !
I cant understand even now Su.
I have named my life to the freedom of my nation , things like luxurious comforts , job , house do not hold any value for me.
I know , you want that my wedding should take place , I should settle down , like parents of every kid wants , but freedom is my bride.
Where can such friends be found ?
One day nothing like this will remain , everybody will take their own road.
Even then we can meet sometimes.
Doesn't happen ji , world's hassles , hunt a job , earn money , start a family , and keep dancing on the prompts of life.
On this side of the gate we control life , then on the other side life controls us.
U know Gulabo , It has been five years since I have passed out of the university , even them I am here only.
I didn't get you.
I want to stay in the university only.
People say , there is something in DJ , DJ will do something , but in the world outside best of DJ broke down.
Gulabo , there is one more thing I am scared of , that is , acting in a film.
Do not be perturbed , I am with you.
Don't you find friends in your own religion ?
In this where did religion community came from ?
This country , never considered muslims its part , nor will it ever consider.
Doesn't your blood boil , have you ever seen me , befriend any Hindu ?
I cannot think like you brother , and don't even want to think.
I feel stifled in this house , day in day out just that one thing.
Lucknow bound train , in which foreigners' money travels , we will rob it exactly eight days later , and with that money we will buy ammunition.
Bismil sir is going to explain the entire plan after he come here.
You will not find true Ramprasad Bismil here , you need true Indian.
You are looking for true Indian , revolutionaries in people who themselves want to become foreigners.
Do not entertain him, Come on lets go.
Ramprasad Bismil wanted to take birth a hundred times only because , he could lay his life for his motherland a hundred times.
So you tell me , where will I find my Bismil !
Look Su , This is not London , you do not know sordid people like Lakshman pandey.
Look Su , If you want to take him , then I am not working in this film.
If you have an issue with me then say it on my face , why are you backbiting , like girls.
Pandey , you better go from here , we do not want any scuffle , do you understand !
Su , I am sorry friend , you know that our tension has always has always been there with Lakshman Pandey.
And if I stay here then this will happen again.
No , won't happen, I am saying this , we have discussed it, Now you will not face any problem.
Su , everybody knows that how important this film is for you.
Everyone wants that whatever work you came to complete , you should complete that.
Everybody wants that you should stay.
I want that you should stay.
Coming four weeks were the most difficult days of my life and most memorable as well.
Kakori robbery of 1925 , everything began from there.
After that nothing stayed like before.
Kakori robbery was a tight slap on the face of the British government.
But its accused were us only.
Now what was being heard , was resonance of our own guns.
The revolution of Jallianwala Bag imbued anger into peace loving Indians.
This was the time when Bhagat Singh left his pen and wrote his destiny after picking up arms.
General Dyer , how can any person even think of doing something like that.
I didn't know that he killed around four hundred people in Jalianwala Bag.
It was the official figure , 389 , actually more than 1000 people had died.
We were also champions in tolerating , suppress us as much as possible.
If you press an ant then it bites , we didn't know how to answer.
We knew it son , today's generation doesn't know how to.
It is such a weird thing , the country is ours , the land is ours , and the foreigners are driving us out.
Ashfaq , come to Afghanistan , there are many of our muslim friends , you will stay safe with them , after all you are their own.
Their , am I not your own ?
This was not what I meant Ashfaq.
As much as this country is mine , is yours as well.
You also have complete right to fight for it , to die for it.
Why do you talk of dying ?
God willing , we can see our forthcoming generation breathing in a liberated Hindostan.
Where is Azad ?
Azad was not someone to come in hands easily.
Expert in changing guise , he would be missing in a moment.
After efforts of several months British government found a chance.
Banwarilal , who was the weakest among captured revolutionaries , and the one who gave us information of whereabouts of Bismil and Ashfaq , he became for us the path to reach Azad.
First of all I heard his voice , a voice in which there was resonance of truth , that very moment I realised my work is not going to be easy.
My prayers will continue till the time my country does not receive freedom.
I don't think you will be able to wait till then.
I am James Mc Caini , I have come here to know from you that where are Azad and his other rowdy mates.
There are not rowdy , they are revolutionaries , call them revolutionaries.
I was told that with time this work will be easy , but with me that didn't happen.
We kept totrturing , but neither did Bismil break nor Ashfaq , both of them befriended pain.
In fact they did something I had never seen before.
When we were breaking their bodies , then may be it was their poetry only , which maintained their soul.
Su, I have never seen these people serious ever.
What are you doing with my friends.
Nothing , whatever it is , they are doing themselves.
There are some things , worth giving life for.
Leave it friend , Bhagat Singh , Bismil , Ashfaq , they gave life for their country didn't they , anything happened ?
Have you seen the condition of this country today and is anyone bothered about this country ?
I am bothered , people like Ajay are bothered , who firght for this country Karan , so that people like you can sleep in peace.
Karan , It is very easy to give commentary from afar , abusing someone is even easier , if you have a problem then you change this country.
This is your country as well , join politics , join police or I.A.S. , change things , but you wouldn't do.
Because who wants to blacken his hands in the cleansing of the house.
If you have this much strength then move ahead , change this country's future.
Nothing will change my friend , This is the way things happen , and will keep happening, Here you initiate , and there you will be put to an end.
Aunty ji , You have got a very good daughter-in-law , will now touch Ajay's feet as well.
See , what is the condition of the nation's woman , what all she has to do.
Their childhood has not gone past , half the time they keep fighting , the rest of the time keep on persuading each other.
I can understand , how must Sonia must be feeling.
Initially even I used to feel like that , when I got married to Commander Rathore.
Then gradually it began to be realised that he is of the nation first , then mine.
You want or you don't want , this truth you have to accept.
You go from here , we do not want to kill any Indian.
After that Azad , Bhagat Singh , Rajguru and their mates , all disappeared.
This was the time when they composed this slogan - Inquilab Zindabad.
Wow , what a plan , but Bhagat it is impossible to escape from there.
Who wants to escape Panditji , our real motive is to surrender ourselves to the British.
If we get caught then a trial will take place and through this trial we will make our voice reach people , will wake them up.
But the one who gets caught , he can be hanged as well.
I know , but those who are hard of listening they require a blast.
They were only smoke bombs , whose motive was to raise Indians from their sleep , Bhagat Sing's plan was successful.
We are political prisoners , we should get books , pen , paper to write and minimum a newspaper daily.
And till that time we will not eat anything , hunger strike will continue.
Their hunger strike continued till 114 days.
In the history of the world no revolutionary could not tolerate such torture for so many days under such inhuman conditions.
This investigation of Mig airplanes may not drown us.
Won't happen Shastri ji , public's memory is very weak , rest we will take care of.
News of a dead soldier remains alive in media for a long time.
Shastri Ji , one enlists in army to lay his/her life for the country.
Here eyes are damp for Ajay Rathore and anger is visible in all of these , towards the government , especially towards defence minister.
Government cannot turn its face like these , they have to clearly tell the public that why cheap , bad quality spare parts of Mig plane are bought.
MIG can be made again , our kids cannot come back.
See , it is very clear , defense minister is responsible for it.
He will have to resign.
It seems people will expose defence scam , but how successful will they be in this , only time will tell.
Our defense minster says that Lieutenant Ajay Rathore was a novice.
Today how many sons of how many ministers of our country are in the army , today I want to ask this question.
Take her to emergency fast.
You please stop here.
You took out a front against your own government , this cannot happen.
The front was not against the government , it was on the side of truth.
Our youth enlists in army , even lay down their lives for the country and these corrupt ministers fill their safe at the cost of their lives.
What can we even do , country's law is in its pocket.
We will have to do something that can shake them from their roots.
What is the meaning , what do you want to do ?
Kill him.
What , Kill the defense minister , have you gone crazy !
We people are not killers Sonia !
We are not thirsty for someone's blood.
I will arrange for the gun.
Goes out for a walk at eight ' o clock everyday , will finish there itself.
The truth should reach people.
You have thought about it properly haven't you ?
Your father's life long hard work , name , fame everything will drown.
Say why did you do all of this , why did you do ?
Why did you do ?
What did I do ?
But whatever happened has happened , now I will take care of everything.
Mother , you Ajay went away , his life won't go waste.
After all what is in these guys , that they are not scared.
You go on the mike , I will manage outside.
Hey , you keep the show on else i ' ll switch you off.
Come on come out , don't worry , nothing will happen to you.
Come on get out of here.
You do not need to worry , we will not say anything to anyone.
My name is Rahul and the show's name is' Raat baaki baat baaki '.
Today a surprise guest has come in the studio with us , who is also a very old friend of mine , whose name is Karan Singhania !
My name is Karan Singhania , my friends and I killed defense minister Shastri.
We are no terrorists , there is no foreign hand behind us , not from any political group , we five are students of Delhi University.
We killed defense minister , because he took our friend Flight Lieutenant Ajay Rathore's life.
He was also responsible for many brave pilots like Ajay Rathore.
We killed him because after taking Ajay's life he abused his name as well.
Ajay's mother , who not only sacrificed her son for the nation but her husband also ,is battling for life in coma in hospital today.
Defense minister is for the protection of the country , he sold the country.
We killed him because even after committing such a big crime he was escaping out clearly from right under our nose.
Today we have come over here to confess our crime.
Just now a news has been received , attackers of defense minister are hiding in All India Radio.
Delhi police's team has reached the spot , trapped people there are being evicted out.
You go on the mike , we don't have much time , will catch us by entering in 15-20 minutes , whatever you have to say go say.
We have even heard that Rajnath Singhania's name is also included in the brokerage of planes.
My name is Daljeet Singh , there are only two ways to live life.
One to let happen whatever is happening , keep tolerating or to take up responsibility to change it.
Before coming here Karan Singhania killed his father Rajnath Singhania as well.
This is a lot of blood flowing friend !
Let it be friend , Actually I got tired running.
I always thought that there are two kind of people in the world.
One who silently hold death's hem and second those who move towards death baling and wailing.
I met humans of the third kind.
The bus is halted for you since ten minutes.
Are you unable to listen , everyday it gets late because of you.
First wash your hands and come.
What , what do you do in school , See hands , See face !
Ishan keep that , hey at least turn off the tap properly.
Inu , today exam papers were supposed to be received , did the teacher give ?
Inu , what am I asking ?
Mother , Practical cancel , Hindi teacher caught viral.
First in all subjects mom.
Inu , How did yours go ?
He is being Wow !
Ishan , first finish your homework , no Ishan.
Hey didn't I tell you get the ball , don't you understand.
Your child destroyed all my plants.
You have not taught anything to your kids.
Uncle he tore even my shirt.
Ishan this is the limit everyday your complaint , complaint from school , complaint from building , if I step outside the house then complaint.
How many times I have told you Inu , Do not play with Ranjit.
Go take a bath , then I will apply Dettol.
Papa where are you going Papa ?
Leaving home , won't come back.
Why are you scaring the kid , Inu Papa is going for office work not because of you , will be back by Sunday.
What a handwriting , What is this Ishan all your spellings are wrong ?
Enough of merrymaking , you will have to stay back in that class again.
All your friends will go to the next standard , will you feel good ?
Go to sleep Inu , no story today , I am very tired.
Dada I ran from school today , I crossed the wall and escaped.
After first period , had not done maths homework , and had not got even unit test paper signed.
Dada please write absent note.
No no , I am not going to write any fake absent note , come on sleep now will tel mom everything tomorrow.
Inu papa has come.
When did papa come ?
Last night , you were sleeping.
Maya , Ishan had fever on thursday , what is this absent note !
I did not write this note.
Ishan what is this , What is the meaning of this note ?
Bunked school Ishan , where did you go ?
Who wrote this absent note , You cannot write properly.
No improvement in classwork and homework , exactly like last year.
You must have seen exam papers , have boiled eggs in every subject.
Had you sent his exam papers ?
Last Wednesday for parents signature , have not returned till date.
Mister Awasthi , Otherwise also it is your son's second year in third standard.
If it continues like this then I will not be able to help you in anyway.
perhaps he has some problem , there are special schools for such children.
Let him complete this year , he hasn't stayed without me till date.
See how he is staring , will straighten him there at boarding school through beating.
Believe me Maya , I am his father , fees is out of budget but will adjust somehow.
Papa please do not send me papa.
Papa I will not go to boarding school , mom you say please I do not want to go.
You father tells us that you are every stubborn , listen to one thing clearly , only one rule is followed in this school discipline.
You do not be perturbed Mr. Awasthi we have tamed the wildest horses here.
Hey you are not ready till now and how have you worn this tie , mummy has taught you nothing.
Children he is Ishan Nand Kishore Awasthi.
Here come in front , pick your bag.
Today onwards your place is here , right in front of my eyes.
Besides Rajan Damodran , Rajan Damodran comes first in class.
Rajan Damodran's company has a positive result on you , I expect this.
How come you came in the middle of a session ?
Come on it's art class.
You always come first in class, then why did you parents sent you here ?
I mean in boarding , to punish ?
I do not stay in boarding , my father is estate manager of school.
I stay in staff quarters with my mother , father.
Who told you here all children come for punishment ?
Where did you go , Your mother's phone had come.
Go keep standing near the phone she is going to call again.
Have heard that you were singing in the class and were playing flute as well.
Yes , was singing and was playing flute as well , children happy , I am happy.
Listen , where is your friend ?
Don't know sir was here right now suddenly ran away.
Must have had seen his new boring art teacher.
NO , no sir must have gone to dining hall for lunch.
What is this matter of Ishan , what problem does he has , Always stays scared.
He has a problem , however much you try cannot study , cannot write , is punished all the time.
Ishan paints ?
Yes , he has an inclination for painting.
Why did you send him ?
There was no way , last year he failed in third standard , would you believe ?
There are no chances of his improvement this my elder son comes first in every class every subject and that second.
This trouble of reading - writing is called Dyslexia.
At times a child has many more problems along with dyslexia.
Did Ishan face problems with tying shirt buttons or shoe laces ?
Rohan when you throw ball towards him then can he catch the ball ?
He cannot judge the ball.
Because he cannot understand size , speed , distance all three together.
Just think , a child of only eight years cannot study , cannot write.
Cannot do daily ordinary tasks , can't do all those things which children of his age do so easily.
What must be passing through him , his self confidence must have been shattered.
I am sorry that he has stopped painting , a very sad thing indeed.
You are saying that my son is not normal , is mentally retarded.
Weird man you are , look at this Mister Awasthi , this sharp mind is weaving thousand dreams in colours.
Way beyond your and my competence.
I know , outside there thrives a merciless competent world.
In this world everybody want to grow toppers and rankers in their own houses.
Everybody wants top marks , less than doctor , engineer , management is not even tolerable.
Hey think for a while , every child has its own quality , own talent , own desire.
But everybody is busy lengthening every finger by stretching it.
Continue , even if the finger breaks.
Hey there is no way , if there is so inclination to run horses then why do you give birth to kids.
When will they understand that every kid picks up weight according to his capacity.
If not today then would have learnt yesterday , everyone has its own pace.
It is with five fingers that a hand is made up of.
Friends today I will tell you people a story , story of a boy.
Ishan please switch on the light.
Ishan Awasthi , third D , is a new student.
We don;t think he will be able to manage year long.
No sir , he is a very intelligent child he has a little problem with reading and writing.
You must be knowing about dyslexia.
You have made our task easier Nikumb , was wondering what will we tell his father.
Then special school is the only best place for him , right ?
No sir , he has complete right to stay in a normal school he just needs a little help from us.
Otherwise also worldwide all kinds of children whatever their problem is , study together in normal school.
Pardon me sir , I am not saying this , this is being said by the law of country India.
Under education to all every child gets this right.
See you tell me one thing , how will this child be able to manage here ?
Will do it sir if teachers help a bit.
To pay attention to one child among forty kids !
Sir it won't take as much time as you are thinking , only two-three hours in a week.
I can do and show it sir and otherwise also he just has to pass in all these subjects , his real destination is somewhere else sir.
Every child has his own talent.
Sir just have a look at the child's painting.
What a thought sir , made by only eight year old kid !
Sir very people are able to think out of the box.
He just needs one chance otherwise his hopes will dash.
What do you want from me ?
Sir till some time his spellings , his handwriting should be ignored.
His test should be taken verbally , knowledge is knowledge sir whether oral or written.
I am working on his reading , writing gradually that will also improve.
Painting competition , for teachers students every one !
What is the aim of colours , to give release to emotions hidden inside.
Mister Awasthi come, How come here , Did you meet Ishan ?
No I won't meet him now , Had to talk about something to you first.
My wife is surfing internet since many days.
She has read all the information published on dyslexia.
Had to tell you , if you were thinking that we are among those people who do not take care of their kids.
To care is very important Mister Awasthi , there is power of cure in it , an ointment with which pain is relieved.
The child is reassured that somebody takes care of him.
Child , I love you , if there is any worry then come to me.
This is what is called as to care, isn't it Mister Awasthi !
I brought me happiness to hear that you feel that you care.
Rajan , where is Ishan ?
Don't know sir , he left hostel even before everyone else woke up.
Where were you , come sit , do you have colours ?
There is a good news now we there would be no need to look for a new art teacher.
Along with Tulip school Nikumb sir will teach in our school as well.
Now we are going to announce that which is the most awaited.
The painting which will be chosen , we thought it should become front cover of year book of school.
Yes kids , this Nikumb sir of yours , have lost.
The child to make him lose is the young nine year old Nand Kishore Awasthi.
Ishan where are you ?
This is your Ishan and this is his painting.
Initially it was felt that there is a lot of mess he will not be able to stay here for long.
Then what improvement he showed , wow what a perspective of the child , very good.
Take this progress report of the kid , your child is very talented.
I can't come to believe.
I can't understand how should I say thank you to you!
It is said that if one has to understand a country and its society they should watch its movies.
Roughly speaking you can make presumptions about your culture by the mere sight of a movie.
There are phases of transitions everywhere in the world.
Look at our Hindi cinemas , how the world of Hindi cinema has changed a lot today.
The journey of the Hindi Cinema dates long back up to the point where it has reached today.
The movie " Bandit Queen " featured in 1994 had set a new path & direction for the Indian Cinema.
The film directed by Shekhar Kapoor was based on the book " India's Bandit Queen: The true story of Phoolan Devi " by Mala Sen .
The entire movie was filmed in the Chambal valley and the surrounding areas of Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh.
The music direction of the movie was done by the popular singer of Pakistan Ustad Nusrat Fateh Ali khan.
There are no male or female actors singing on stage in this movie.
The dialogues of the movie were full of abuses.
' Bandit Queen ' was successful at the box office and it won so many awards.
The movie ' Satya ' featured in 1988 by Ram gopal verma proved to be a milestone in the history of Indian Cinema.
Ramgopal Verma had established himself because of his films- ' Shiva ' and ' Rangila ' and now he wanted to do something new.
He thought of making movies on the Crime world of Mumbai.
The movie with a budget of 2 crores did a business of 15 crores.
The shooting of the entire movie was done on the lanes and streets of Mumbai.
The editing of the movie was not done through the then prevalent Steinbeck machine but in the form of digital editing.
The playback music in the movie by Sandeep Chauta startled the people.
All the actors of the movie except Urmila Matondkar and Chakraborty were cast from theater.
The characters and their dialogues in the movie were not filmy but of general everyday speech.
Today's popular director Anurag Kashyap was one of the writers of the movie.
In the year 2001 Indian Cinema again took a new turn.
The two films featured this year, ' Lagan ' and ' Dil chahta hai ' changed both the grammar and equation of Indian Cinema.
Since then, till today the dialogues of some films are dubbed in the studio.
The first movie of director Rajkumar Hirani ' Munna Bhai MBBs' came in 2003.
The witty mumbaiite dialogues and the hidden messages of the movie made the people laugh a lot and compelled them to watch the film again and again.
The movie ' Khosla ka Ghosla ' built under the direction of Dibakar Banerjee was featured in 2006.
The movie made with low budget falsified this illusion that the audience likes to watch only star cast movies.
The story of the film was new and it was made in an entertaining way with a put of comic-satire.
The people of Mumbai film industry call such films as' Content Driven Cinema '.
Most attention in these movies is laid on new scripts and theme.
These movies have again changed this fact that the hero of the film is its script, not the popular faces.
Then after in the series films like ' Tere Bin laden ' , ' Udan ' , ' phas gae re obama ' , ' vicky donor ' and ' Gangs of Waseypur ' were made and became successful.
Because of their strong and athletic body, Dara Singh, Dharmendra, Sanjay Datt, Sunny Deol and Salman khan from the Indian film industry has always remained popular among the viewers.
Amir khan, the friend and rival of Shahrukh khan was the next name in attracting his viewers by making six pack abs.
Amir khan took this impersonation for his action film ' Gajni ' featuring in 2008.
It was the first Indian movie which earned more than 100 crores.
The next year in 2009, Amir's another film ' three idiots broke this record and earned more than 200 crores.
A foreign film ' slum-dog millionaire featured in 2008 excited the entire world.
The movie gave a chance to the kids living in the slums of Mumbai to act in films.
This movie brought three awards in the Oscar awards in 2009.
With this a lot more things changed in the Indian Cinema.
Now our actors are rarely seen themselves singing songs on the stage.
Now a days the supremacy of play back singing has increased more than the songs.
Now the Hindi movies are shot less in the artificial sets and more outside Mumbai.
The majority of the shooting of the films such as Gangajal, Omkara, Swadesh and Dabang was done in the village named Wai situated at some distance to Mumbai near Mahabalehwar.
Today's movies are filmed in the real cities and villages.
The costumes of the Indian movies have also not remained like the old ones.
The popular costumes designers of the country now design costumes for the Bollywood movies.
The costume designers for their movies buy the costumes from abroad when they don't get the costumes of their choice in the country.
The effect of all these things are clearly visible in the increased expenditure on Indian Cinema.
The two movies of Shahrukh khan are its example.
His film ' Devdas' featured in 2002 had budget of 50 crores whereas his film Ra-one featured in 2011 had a budget of 125 crores.
Today's movies earn money using new ways.
Now the black money in hindi movies has almost vanished.
For many years the income tax department in order to pay the personal tax has honored Bollywood stars.
When there were so many changes how could the traditional movie theaters remain untouched from this breeze.
Those were the good times when our movies used to run in the theaters for weeks,months and years.
When the films sustained in the cinema halls for 25 weeks it was said to be a silver jubilee hit film, 50 weeks meant golden jubilee and 75 weeks meant platinum jubilee.
Ashok kumar enacted movie ' Kismat ' , Ramesh sippi directed movie ' sholay ' and Aditya chopra directed movie ' dilwale dulhania le jaege ' are such movies.
Then the business of Hindi movies restricted to 100 days in the age of video piracy.
Then it reduced to one week.
Today if a movie runs for three days i.e. from Friday to Sunday , it is considered to be a successful movie.
Big and expensive stars started featuring their movies during holidays and festivals.
Salman Khan has started this game with his film, ' wanted ' which was released during Eid festival and was a big hit.
Like this Salman Khan, Ajay Devgan and Amir khan started putting forth their movies before the viewers during Eid, Diwali and Christmas respectively.
In a drab situation we laugh , become depressed and can even cry.
This is the magic of cinema.
Serious cinema completely binds the viewers.
This is the unique identification of influential cinema.
The magic of cinema is so effective that a lot many big decisions are taken on its basis.
One such decision was taken by the Central Board of Secondary Education.
The board announced to give more time to the children with special needs during examinations.
Not only this, a provision was also made to provide more time to read the question paper.
The significant role in this decision was of the movie ' Tare Zameen Par ' whose writer was Amol Gupte and the director-producer was Amir Khan.
' Black ' , ' Iqbal ' , ' Stanley Ka Dibba ' , ' Three Idiots' are few such offbeat movies which have spontaneously attracted the education world towards them.
Our classrooms also have such kids who suffer from some kind of problems.
The government shall make special arrangements for such children.
In fact the government has made the arrangements but they are not implemented.
You tell how can we impart education to such children?
Such children shall also get the assistance of their family.
Whenever there is talk about the deep relationship between eduaction and cinema then the question arises that what is that thing that binds them together.
After a lot of brainstorm it was felt that the link between the two of them is society.
Cinema evolves from the society and education is also connected to all the disciplines of society.
The goal of education is to live a meaningful life.
Actually Cinema illustrates the reality of society, shows the burning issues of society on silver screen and raises questions.
Whether it is' No One Killed Jessica ' , ' Aarakshan ' , ' Rajneeti ' , ' Swadesh ' , ' Pipli Live ' or LOC- All of them expose some truth or another.
