It is said that his heroines are more powerful than his male characters.
His creation touches the heart deeply.
But in the Sharat literature, despite of having all the elements, in this less light falls over the social conflicts , exploitation etc.
In the Palli Samaj, some picture of the society comes in front.
In some stories like Mahesh etc question of the exploitation appears.
On the basis of his novel Hindi pictures has been made many times.
On the basis of his novel ' Charitraheen ' in 1947 with this name itself movie had been created.
After that, making the base Devadaas film has been made three times.
Beside that on the basis of Charitraheen in 1974, Parineeta-1953 and in 2005 also , Badi Didi (1669) and Manjhalee Didi , etc movies have been made also.
The famous writer of the Hindi Vishnu Prabhaakar has written the biography of the Sharatchandra which is famous by the name of the Awaara Masiha.
Rahul Sankrityayan is viewed as a nomadic writer in the Hindi and he is also called wanderer.
He has composed the enormous literature in that there is inclusion of the story, novel and books of the history, society.
Rahul Sankrityaayan who is given the honour of Mahapandit were a prominent author of the Hindi.
He was a prestigious multilingual and in the early in the 20th century he gave the contribution in the field of the travelogue literature and world-philosophy writing.
He is called the grandfather of the Hindi travelogue literature.
His research on the Buddhism is considered epoch-making in the Hindi literature, for that he had travelled from Tibbat to Srilanka.
Despite that, he wrote a travelogue on travelling in the Middle-Asia and Tibet, which are very important in the literature perspective.
Ghumakkar Shastra is his famous book.
He asserted whole life with the creativity, quest, thinking and change.
Politics was not his work field but the interest of the Rahul was enamored towards the Communist Ideology also.
The counting of Rahul was among the world's great thinkers and intellectuals.
The credo of the life of the Rahul Sankrityaayan has been remaining wandering or mobility.
Wandering for him was not a practice but religion.
In the modern Hindi literature, Rahul Sankrityaayan is known as a travelogue writer, historian, archeologist, world changing author.
He is considered as a prominent author of the Hindi.
Rahul Sankrityaayan was a Brahmin.
He took birth on 9th April 1893 at Pandahaa village in Ajamgadh District of the Uttar Pradesh.
His childhood name was Kedarnath Pande.
Due to death of mother in his childhood his upbringing had been done by his grand father Shri Ram Sharan Pathak and grand mother.
In 1898 for the primary education he was sent to a seminary of the village itself.
Rahul Jee was married in the childhood.
This marriage was a transitional event in the life of the Rahul Jee.
In reaction of that Rahul Jee left the home in adolescence itself.
Running away from home he became saint in a monastry.
But due to his wanderer nature even he could not stay there.
In the age of fourteen years he fled to Calcutta.
In his mind a deep dissatisfaction was there to earn the knowledge.
That's why, from here to there he kept wandering whole India.
Excursion of the country-abroad and writing was the favourite work of Rahul.
The literature of the Rahul Sankrityaayan is broad.
Rahul Sankrityaayan was the product of the period when under the British governance Indian society, culture, economy, and politics were all going through the transition period.
That was the period of the social reformers and Congress was in infancy then.
In the year 1930, after going Shrilanka he became initiated from Buddhism and since then itself he became ' Rahul ' from ' Ramodar Sadhu ' and due the Sankritya sept was called Sankrityaayan.
Looking at his wonderful reasoning and unique knowledge, pandits of the Kashi gave him the honor of the Mahapandit and thus he became Mahapandit Rahul Sankrityaayan from Kedarnath Pandey.
Pandit of thirty six languages Rahul composed the literature in the genres like novel, essay, story, autobiography, reminiscence and biography but most of the literature composed in Hindi itself.
Rahul was of the fact-finding and curious nature that's why did the deep study of the books of every religion.
He studied Sanskrit books during his journey of South Indian, Pali-books during the stay in Tibet, Muslim religious book during the traveling of Lahore learning Arabic language.
To understand Rahul as a litterateur it is must to read his political literature.
Even after the attraction towards the communist ideology Rahul did not remain single-minded.
Coming till 1916, his Inclination became towards Buddhism.
Getting teachings from the Buddhism, he became Rahul Sankrityaayan.
Due to fondness in the Buddhism he inclined to learn Pali, Prakrit, Apbhransh etc. languages.
Russian revolution of the 1917 affected deeply the mind of the Rahul Jee.
He was Secretary-General of the All Indian Farmers Society.
He travelled to Tibet four times and brought enormous literature from there.
In 1932 Rahul Jee went for the journey of the Europe.
In 1935, travelled to Japan, Korea, Manchuriya.
In 1937, in Masco during traveling he fell in love with the secretary of the India-Tibet Department Lolo Yelena.
And getting married there itself he started to stay in the Russia.
Rahul Jee had greater love to Himalaya.
He started to live in Nainital in 1950, making home there.
Here he got married to Kamala Sankrityaayan.
After few years of this He started to live in Darjeeling (West Bengal), but later due to suffering from the diabetes he was sent to the Russia for treatment.
In 1963, In Soviet Russia even after the treatment of seven months his health did not become well.
He died on 14th April 1963 in Darjeeling (West Bengal).
Due to his death Indian literature had irreparable loss.
Rahul Sankrityaayan was an intellect.
He was living in the deep discontentment of the actual knowledge, to fulfill this discontentment he was always ready.
He gave Hindi literature an enormous repertory.
Talent of the Rahul Jee was versatile and he was an extraordinary thinker.
He has done the important work by edition religion, philosophy, folk literature, travelogue, history, politics, biography, dictionary and ancient books.
In his compositions, coordination get to see of the belief towards antiquity, pride toward history and true vision towards the present.
It was only Rajul jee, who tried to give the integral perspective by imbibing the ancient and current Indian literature thoughts completely.
His novel and stories put completely new viewpoint in front of us.
During the period of the Tibet and China journey he reformed thousands of books and showed the path for its edition and publication, these books are in the Patna Museum.
The prominent author in the travelogue has been Rahul Jee.
Kinnar Desh Ki Or, Kumanu, Darjeeling Parichaya and Yatra ke Panne are his such books.
While reading this , we get the knowledge of these places of the country-abroad.
Rahul Sankrityaayan was the exponent of the traveler philosophy.
It was his assumption that travelling being the medium to free the human mind is also a the medium of the expansion of our own horizone.
Imbibing his experiences of the traveling, Rahul also composed ' Ghumakkar Shastra '.
He was a wanderer who was in quest of the true knowledge and whenever it was tried to suppress the truth he turned rebellious.
His whole life was filled with the internal contradictions.
After reading the Vedant when he gave lecture against the tradition of the sacrifice in the temple then conservative priests assailed over him with sticks.
Despite of accepting Buddhism he could not accept its ideology of rebirth.
In the year 1974 as director of the All Indian Literature conference he refused to speak the early printed speech and the speech he delivered, that was against the policies of the Communist Party over the the minority tradition and the language issue.
Hence, he has to be deprived from the membership of the party, but even though his attitude did not change.
During this time period apart from any boundation he kept attached with the concerns of the progressive writing and contemporary issues.
Meanwhile, he emphesised to implement the Marxist ideology after measuring the concrete circumstances of the Indian society.
In his book ' Vaigyanik Bhautikvad ' and ' Darshan-Digdarshan ' he highlighted in this regard.
Eventually, during the year 1953-54 again, he became the member of the communist party.
During the year 1940, regarding the farmer-movement he was imprisoned for a year then during this prison-stay of the Devali camp he composed the book ' Darshan-Digdarshan '.
After the quit India movement of 1942 coming out of prison, he was declared editor of the weekly magazine ' Hunkar ' which was published by the top leader of that time Swami Sahjaanand Saraswati.
British government, while adopting the policy of Divide and Rule issued an advertisement titled ' Fight with the thugs' for four points in non Congress journals.
Rahul was the master of true personality and beside politics in personal life with the fact of the affairs this harmony of his personality always retained.
Rahul abdicated his marriage and family life which was done at the age of eleven years, some where inside him a revolution has emerged.
The life of the Rahul gives the message to the people of the whole world to know the world away from the boundary of the state of the country and motivates to take the ordination of the travelling oath.
Rahul Sankrityaayan always remained wanderer.
Since year 1923 his series of foreign visits started, then it ended with his life itself.
In his these travelings encouraged by the motivation to collect the knowledge travelings of Shrilanka, Tibet, Japan and Russia are notable.
He Reached Tibet four times.
He stayed there for a long time and reformed that heritage of India, which had become unknown, rare and forgotten for us.
Rahul came back from Tibet with pride and ample material from there, due to that it became mandatory to change in the many pre established values and conclusions related to the history of the Hindi language and literature.
Simultaneously, new horizons of research and study were open.
Rahul went to Tibet as an author, tourist and historian.
In respect of India his this work cannot be assessed less than Hwensang.
Rahul was multilingual but he wrote in his mother tongue itself.
He was a strong supporter of the national language for a nation.
Without language nation is dumb, it was his supposition.
He had never seen any kind of conflict in the growth and development of the national language and regional languages.
It was his supposition that development of Hindi as a language is possible on the foundation of these regional languages.
He used to assume Hindi as emergence from the Indian folk culture and classical background of the culture.
Rahul remained influenced for whole life from Buddhism philosophy and Mark,s communist ideas.
Assimilated thought of both of the Buddhism and Marxism was with him, on which basis he had cherished the ' sweet dream ' of creation of new India.
Mr. Rahul has made us viewed our heritage from his work and aroused the feeling of the pride among us.
Rahul is the writer of the 22nd century.
Due to his progressive thoughts, a person who fulfills the dream a century ahead.
Rahul how used to consider whole world his home after leaving home in 1910 again reached to his maternal village Pandahaa in year 1943.
Actually, in childhood due to his wandering nature after getting scolding from father he had decided that he will step in the house in the 50th year of his age.
Although when he reached to Pandaha then no one could recognised him but eventually an old person named Lohar recognised him and embraced him in his arm saying ' Son of Kulvanti, kedar ' with affection and wet throat.
Acquainted voice of an old person at his birthplace made Rahul enraptured.
Wandering natured Rahul Sankrityaayan were such a talent in universal perspective, who had equal hold over literature, history, philosophy culture and all.
Strange seer of the distinct personality, thinker, philosopher literature, author, karmyogi and precursor of the social revolution, Rahul has lived every part of the life.
This is the reason that his creativity is not pure fictional literature, but that is animated through society, culture, science, religion, philosophy etc. and which attacks on the conservative perceptions and becoming life-relative shows the path of struggle and movement by unifying progressive powers.
Such intellect had to go through with the condition like amnesia in the last days of his life and for the treatment he had taken to Masco.
But who has bounded the wanderer, hence in April 1963 he came to Delhi again from Masco and after the death at the age of seventy years on 14th April 1963 his journey from renunciation in Darjeeling to communism was completed but his wandering life philosophy is still alive among us.
Rahul Sankrityaayan has participated in the Non-cooperation Movement against the British Government.
In the personality of Rahul Jee there was no conservation like abstinence.
To know the past and infiltrate in it, to understand the current challenges and to fight with the problems, to cherish the dream of the future - this was the lifestyle of Rahul Jee.
Meaning of the past was for him not just to know the history, but also, was to understand and know the natural history.
He used the history in new meaning.
The view toward the history of Rahul Jee was antic.
He used to add in it the link of present and future.
For him history was not just the description of the ' events '.
He used to find the base of the religious thought from it.
He had an enormous belief towards the enormous knowledge store.
That literature might be related to history or to culture, to spirituality or to reality - he used to examine everything like a researcher.
In his progressiveness there was a request to see the international and national perspective, the imposed foreign culture was renounceable in his perspective.
He was worshiper of his language, his literature.
That literature might be of Sanskrit, Hindi, Urdu or Bhojapuri.
Beside his mother tongue Bhojpuri Rahul has deep affection from all the mother tongues of the country.
Bhojpuri was dear to him.
Because it was the language of his soil.
He used to suppose folk-drama tradition as a carrier of tradition.
Folk dramas or folk platforms play their strong role in any public movement, this was the viewpoint of Rahul Jee.
That's why he composed the Bhojapuri dramas.
In this he named himself ' Rahul Baba '.
In against of social inequality in these dramas and songs at many places, touching dictums has been said.
He brought these Bhojapuri dramas at the conceptual surface and voiced the sound of the social change in local-language.
The intense thirst and loyalty towards the public-awareness gave such enlightenment to the personality of the Rahul Jee that its assessment is away from the capability of any critic.
He was the supporter of the communal harmony.
He was the pundit of many languages.
He just not used to give importance to every language and their literature, but even used to tell to adopt that.
Rahul was an intelligent person and server of the social tradition.
The voice of Rahul was energetic.
He had the art to speak.
His speech used to be flawless and had permanent impact.
In Patna, Rahul Sankrityaayan Institute has been established.
Here, there is also a museum of the things related to him.
Author Prabhakar Mavache has written the biography of Rahul Jee and highlighted that part of his personality from which people were not aware.
This book had been published in 1978 for the first time.
Its translation was also published in English, Russian, etc. many languages.
The books of Rahul Jee have been translated in English, his creations have been popular also in Chinese, Russian etc. many foreign languages.
In 1958 he has been honored by Sahitya Academy award and in 1963 Padmabhushan award of the government of India.
Did you see that, always eats rubbish.
Oh great,  What is being prepared mother.
Oh, it is a full moon night today, women from neighbors are coming, to sing the aarti, all the guests will come, dinner of everyone will be there, and see, how many works are left.
Oh, these two fat people will do the rest of the work.
Mother,  Let's go, today I will get you somewhere to visit.
Ok, will you take me out, did not you get someone else to take out?
Suman,  Give that pouch and take rest for some time.
Ramu-Shyamu, please come.
Madam,  Please fry the kachoris.
See, how Mehndi in my hand have been designed?
Are you tired?
Are you very angry?
Will you not talk with me?
No, I don't have mood right now.
To make your mood right, shall I say something?
I don't want to hear anything from anyone.
Fine, you won, in the future don't stay hungry ever.
Mister,  Pay attention , even she has not had a meal.
Suman,  Come with me.
Where, Aunty Jee.
Come, we will talk with Prem about his marriage.
Yes, I think, how soon it will be possible I will bring the daughter-in-law in this home, come.
What are you thinking, Kumar Sahab?
The girl to whom you have given shelter in your home, today dreaming to be daughter-in-law at your home itself, taking advantage of the innocence of our Prem.
Someone does not gift the expensive pendent given by her father to someone just like that.
Kumar Sahab, Few people are expert at taking away the rights.
And Uncle,  When I wanted to show her capability of hers, she slapped me on the cheek tightly.
Pardon Kumar Sahab,  Pardon, if someone hand is behind this fraud girl then of her father, of your own friends.
You have just paid for the responsibility of your friendship, Kumar Sahab,  Who behaved pridelessly is he, stain on the name of friendship, who left her daughter here intentionally.
Day after tomorrow is the birthday of Suman, don't have idea that what she will demand from Prem?
Live long life son,  Happy birthday.
Aunty Jee,  Shall I take tea for Uncle Jee?
Ok, will you make your father-in-law take tea by your hand?
Is it your birthday today?
What has been your age?
You are quite clever for the age of eighteen year.
See, I don't have any enmity with you, You had been given facility to live in this home, not any right.
From which right, from which right did you step in the life of my son, from which right?
Give the answer,  I want an answer , give the answer.
I give you the answer.
Love of Prem has given this right to her, my decision to make her my daughter-in-law.
Kaushalya, this girl cannot be daughter-in-law of this family.
Happy birthday daughter.
You are crying, crazy,  See I came, after finishing all the works on your birthday, to you, to my friend.
Oh, why is everyone so quite?
See Kishan, what did I bring for everyone?
Keep it brother.
Take this, eat the sweet.
Kishan,  See, see I brought for you pen, is not this your instrument?
Bhabhi,  See I brought for you saris, I brought all.
Anyway, every colour looks good over you.
Where is Prem?
Come Prem,  Welcome my son.
I want to have some talk with you, father.
We will talk, son, but in your own cabin.
Come Prem,  Sit on this chair and take charge of this company.
You are giving me punishment of which mistake, father?
Son,  This is a gift for you.
From today onwards take your decision by your own.
I had taken a decision, father, to marry with Suman, why did you refuse that?
Kumar Sahab,  Make him understand.
What will I make him understand, Ranjit Sahab,  Even he did not see the outer world, which is heartless, is oppressor, how will he stand, he does not know even to walk on the road properly.
You don't know even Prem that how tough is it to earn ten rupees daily, how much struggle have to do.
Will learn, What will you learn Prem, You don't know even to learn.
Love makes us learn everything, Father.
Prem,  Are you going?
But, our engagement is going to happen.
Please , don't go leaving me.
Ok, then come with me.
Are you thinking?
People who love never think.
Father,  I am Prem.
Baujee,  I know that you are angry,  Father said you the pros and cons, I ask pardon from you.
Great, the father gives the wound and son comes to put ointment over it, comes to ask for pardon.
Go, go from here, before it that I will slap you.
Go son.
I have not come to go back , Babujee.
I have come to adopt Suman after leaving everything back.
Babujee,  Mother has sent bracelet of token for Suman.
Suman,  Go inside.
Eventually, what do you want, Why are you after making my daughter sink.
I did not come to give Suman havoc, but came to give all those happiness, which you have selected for her.
Will you give her happiness,  In that shallow wealth of your father?
I will establish my own world, Babujee.
Babujee, Your anger is with my father, not with me.
Babujee, Look at me once; look, forgetting this that I am the son of Kumar Sahab.
Test me by separating my father's name with me.
Today, I have come to ask your daughter's hand from you as an ordinary boy.
How much do you earn?
What is your income?
Did you see, how does prick this question, how does it tear the heart.
Two thousand, In a month, Mister Prem, This is a hilly area.
Only, work of wood and stone is done here.
And this is not the tourist season even.
You are educated, why don't you go to the city and earn.
No, Rahim Sahab, I have to earn, in this village itself.
But, son, The Last batch of labors is also full.
O Sundar brother, Did that lorry driver come?
No Rahim Sahab, Waiting for him.
Let it be, son, let it be, it is not of your capability.
Stroke of the labor of a day made you tired.
Yet twenty nine days are remaining.
You have lost, return back, will be happy.
Take back, bracelets of your mother.
Manohar, Be aware, if you took even his name in front of me.
Why, Is not Prem your son?
I don't have any son.
What, don't you have any son?
Then, is Prem is orphan like me, Papajee!
Is Prem is an orphan even having parents?
You shut up, If you will utter a single word more even then I will be angry, please.
How are you, son?
O Chote, Bring a tea, special, sugar separately.
How are you Father?
Prem, All this, for what?
What do you understand , even if you will earn two thousand rupees , then will he make you married to his daughter?
No, All this is his conspiracy, to wriggle me.
Prem, Shall we race till home again?
Your car, I have brought with me, son!
Father, Cars have changed.
Fine, then will you stand with your stubbornity?
Great, Uncle great, You had won the faith of Kumar Sahab, is it so?
There was no any chance of doubt, today he made you helpless to bow down your head in front of these labors.
I felt ashamed even then, Jeevan, when his unqualified son had refused the love of my daughter.
I had never loved her, father.
But you had planed the love.
But I became insulted, Seema, By making true friendship with him then and today once again due to him.
Now it is our chance, Uncle!
Yes Jeevan, Till now Kumar has seen the face of my friendship itself, now will see the real attack of enmity also.
Babujee, Can I demand your daughter's hands now , can see the dream , can meet her up?
The condition has not been fulfilled.
Why Babujee, These rupees are mine, mother had sent the money, but I did not take, Suman's oath.
Let it be Suman, Bet was to earn the rupees, not the pieces of papers.
What would be worth of these rupees, These have been rotten, have been useless.
See properly, numbers of many among these has been erased.
From these rotten rupees, what can you give to my daughter?
Nothing, not even food of two times.
Baba, I don't want food for two times, Baba!
Karan, Where is my son?
If something happened to him, then I.
Why Karan Sahab, Why did you become quiet?
When a person does the wrong work, then at his face itself his action gets busted.
Say, where is his son?
I don't know his son.
I just know the boy who has made his status distinct from his father, on whom I have proud.
Oh, Uncle, Are you surprised, seeing me alive?
I am Hindustan.
Himalaya is knot of my borders, Ganges is swear of my sanity, on reference to date I am the friend of darkness and sunshine.
And on my ash these buildings rapped by the marble sheets are telling from the world that cruel, robbed me and kind fashioned me, immature chained me up and my loved one threw them off by cutting.
A name was Jalaluddin Mohammad Akabar among these beloveds of mine.
Akabar loved me, Becoming strong from the wall of the religion and rituals-rule, he taught to love humankind and for always embarrassed me.
This is the palace of the King Jalaluddin Mohamad Akabar and now among its walls few stories of past days retain.
Three hundred years ago from now, far from the comforts and luxuries of huge palace in this hot desert due to sun and heat, on the sand blazing like fire the lonely person who is strolling naked feet is Akabar-E-Azam.
The sadness of these eyes are saying that he did not see yet the smiling face of the child.
In the wish of the child these falter feet of Akabar are moving towards the mausoleum of Hazarat Shekh Salimuddin Chisti.
With this hope that due to his continuous prayer, God will give Akabar a son.
The wish to walk in this royal procession is of lonely Akabar-E-Azam.
Finally, destination arrived, and the king in front of whom the whole world was bowing head, bowed his head in front of a saint.
Ask like asking, God never refuses the prayer of his devotee.
Lift up your arm for prayer, saint will support you.
King of the kings, You have given to this saint world's all the precious gift from your treasury.
Made me hear the sounds who said Jahapanah, Jille-Ilahi, now make me hear the sound who says father.
O, master of the both worlds, don't make Akabar without name and trace in the world.
Congratulations, Congratulations, Congratulations to Jille-Ilahi.
God filled the lap of the queen, congrats a son like moon to Jille-Ilahi and successor to Mughal empire.
You have brought the news of the kindness of the happiness in the sadden life of Akabar.
Take this ring, as a souvenir keep it with you.
Swear of this scale of justice, whatever you will ask once in the life will be given.
Prince, This scale is not a thing to play for you.
Then, is it a thing to play for Jille-Illahi?
No , this scale is the souvenir of Hazarat Babar and memento of the Mughal kings' justice.
Take this, you have to say this in the court, remember this.
The disobediences of the prince started to increase gradually, and he started to cross the limits of the discipline and obedience.
Mansingh, Make him wear iron outlay by removing the silk lap of the mother, take him and ward him in the hot-blazed storms of the deserts.
I am happy that Salim paid today for my blood right.
The honorable queen of the India.
No great King, A mother, just a mother and nothing else.
I did not know this, that queen Jodha could be so helpless from a week mother, could forget her position.
Oh, great king, Which kind of politics is this of Mughals, which does not let the mother wriggle even, does not let cry, whose son's blood is being floundered with this callosity.
Let him wriggle but don't let him cry.
If all those mothers would cry like you also, whose children are in the war field with their son, then Hindustan will drown in tears.
What, Were wounds of the Sahab-E-Alam not washed yet?
There is no permission to go inside.
Will wounds of the prince not be washed?
For fourteen years who kept bathing in the rain of the blood, he is still engrossed in the poem, how strange thing is it.
There is not the matter of wonder in this, if the words of the Umar Khyyam would be written over rough surface instead of golden time, then will its value change?
Then your king has thought whatever for me, must have thought wrong.
Take this, The whole story of my life wriggling in the outlay of blood instead of the coat of mail.
The story of the prince's life which is taken in the respect of the king is not more than my son.
The avouchment of the king remain safe.
Once again Prince put the flag of victory.
How many wound your prince has got himself to get this victory?
Enormous, hundreds of swords became blunt after touching the body of the prince.
Everytime, the sword of the enemy by shining was praising the strength of the prince and blood of Akabar.
I will examine the Salim's court of mail.
Instead of the court of mail, the prince has sent this message to you.
Congratulations to King for the return of the prince!
What are you thinking standing silently, God, Show me the face of Salim.
Jille-Ilahi has given order to Durjan Singh, that he must come back earliest taking the prince with him.
I want that the prince would come walking on the pearls.
Even this is less Bahar, On the name of Salim I give you every right to you.
My son is coming back home after years.
I will ask him from king for a few days.
He has seen the politics of the father, has not seen love of the mother.
O God, Show me that auspicious time, when my son would be in front of my eyes, and I will forget you for sometime.
In an uninhabited, outside the palace?
I have come to take a stone idol for the prince.
Idols made by me will not be liked by princes and kings.
See this , this the court of the king , every word came out from the king is justice , which does not have any hearing.
This war field, blood of billion innocent men and victory of a man.
This is, result to speak truth, death sentence.
What kind of arrow would be it which does not get through the heart, what kind of intelligence would be that in front of which the head of proud does not bow down automatically.
Then I will make such a statue, in its foot soldiers will put his swords, king, his crown and man taking out his heart.
The crown is put on by the hands of others.
Crown is of others, but strength is ours.
Someone would not come, Bahar, Are you not scared?
The crown does not remain over those heads, timidity would come near to those.
Is there intention to pluck the stars from the sky?
Sometimes stars crack down on the earth by their own.
But for the arrogant princes, a dropped eyes is enough itself.
Congratulation to the queen, There is still an 8th of the time in the morning, maid presents the last pearl of the night watch.
Pay the price for this pearl.
Who has hidden after seeing us, Bahar!
Did not hide, but has been hidden, Prince!
This is the claim of sculptor that when this idol will be unmasked then.
Say it without fear, sometimes claims are interesting even.
This is his claim that after seeing this idol soldiers will keep out their swords, kings their crowns and men their hearts, in their feet.
The claim of the sculptor has been moved away from the limits of the interest.
I want to see the arrogance of his skill.
This is the order of the king that the prince should not see this idol.
This is the saying of the court astrologer, that tonight, before moon will set down it will be inauspicious to see any idol for the prince.
The curtain will be raised in front of the king in the morning.
Maid wants permission to present a wish.
It is in stories that idols used to be unmasked by arrows even.
Shekhu, Stories could be changed in reality.
Jille Ilahi, The order will be followed.
Subhan Allah, It seems, like an angel has taken shelter in the marble getting down from sky.
Maid is not an angle, a human.
But who did force you to be a statue?
A stubborn sculptor of your kingdom, who does not want to come out from the curtain of the obscurity.
Sculpture's brilliant skill is certainly the praise deserving.
But why did you keep silence at the time when the arrow was shot.
Maid wanted to see that how stories turn into reality?
Very good, I praise your courage.
Queen, you include her among your maids and I give her the title of Anarkali.
This is Love, Bajee, people will listen it if not today then tomorrow.
Then why do you scare from disgrace?
I do not scare from my disgrace, I do not want his defamation.
It is not without danger to send the letter like this, prince!
If you will love, then fear will go out from the heart.
Mansingh, What is this?
Regarding the arrangements of the Ajmer province, papers are presented in the service of the superpower.
Is it not known to king Mansingh that I have given Ajmer province to Waliahad-E-Saltanat.
It's known, Superpower!
Then these papers?
Situation approached till here and did you not make realized the prince his responsibility?
Papers have been presented in front of the prince many times but..
But what, Mansingh?
Maid is reported.
Maid is wondered over the recalcitrant of the knife and have complaint from life.
Master, Give a more chance to impudent knife to pass through, lots of blood is there in the chest of the maid.
Bahar, What is there in the heart of the fire?
Silent stories of the night and some secrets.
And this is the reason that just after sun rise every light is been silent for always.
You have also tried to know a secret, reason to make you silent also will be this.
Now you may go.
On the side of the Salim, Anarkali will be the queen of the Hindustan.
Don't let be the crown of the head to the dream of the feet.
It has been.
I am seeing Hindustan of the Akabar-E-Azam would be in your approach.
The fate of the men of the Hindustan will be drawn in the locks of your hair, Anarkali.
And then where ever you see turning the head thousands of the fates will be shivering.
Talk with respect, Salim!
In the cell of the heartless king, Salim's Anarkali will not die, I want his stamp on this freedom letter.
Anarkali will not be freed.
Why not she will be done?
Silent, A prince should not forget his responsibility.
Which responsibility is that which could crush love in the heart also.
The order of the Superpower is Your responsibility.
I have a belief, the frieghtning darkness of the cell will not have kept remained that light in your wishes, which was at some time.
Darkness of the cell were less than the light of the maid's wishes.
Darkness will be increased more.
Wishes will be increased more.
Growing wishes will be crushed.
Justice of the Jille-Ilahi?
I don't want to hear anything, justice of the Akabar is his order.
You will have to forget the Salim.
Certainly, and not just this, you will have to make him believe that you never had love with him.
Beauty in the motion, aware, the queen of the world, beauty of the Kingdom of the Hindustan, Queen Jodhabai.
Grace of the pen, would be king of the kingdom, son of the king, prince Nuruddin Mohammad Salim.
Eyes in the worship, the whole awareness, the king, Jille-Ilahi, King, shelter giver Jalaluddin Mohammad Akabar is coming.
Your this daring love, this dance, this interesting way to explain certainly deserve my reward.
Maid had this expectation from the big heart of the master of the fate, Jille-Ilahi.
Jailor, Take this rude lady and put into the darkness of the prison.
Your presence is the proof of the disobedience.
Anarkali was prisoned and I kept watching.
Oh yes, is your TV is working nowadays?
O, I am coming to your home tomorrow to watch TV.
For tomorrow evening I have taken four tickets of Heros, for you also.
Oh, tear and throw it off, tomorrow evening getting a chance to watch Cosmos verses Mohan Bagan, Black Pearl, World's greatest player Pele.
Deepak, Friend, Just one remorse has been there in life.
Could not see him in flesh and blood, could not welcome him going Calcutta Airport, friend.
Then it is fine, bring Ratna with you also, then will eat dinner together.
Doctor Uncle, Come, come, how is your patient?
Oh, brother, a bungle occurred.
This happened that in the second dosage his fever went down, great, son was taking the tea.
Then what is the matter of goof up in this?
Oh, son, The patient will start to become well just in two dosage then the doctor will be gone from his job.
What happened to whom?
About your result?
The same , was scared of that.
Uncle, Your information was wrong, not fifteen percent, only tweleve percent has been passed.
I said, only twelve percent was passed.
Ratna, Come here, I ask result from her.
Total how many applications arrived?
All of total hundred seventeen, sir, twenty three are freshers, the rest people are experienced.
Throw the applications of experienced people in the dustbin.
Bade Babu, Due to being in the hands of these experienced people such condition of the country has been happened.
Where ever see, no any man could be seen on the chair below from seventy-eighty, that's why this country is not being able to run, crawling like a horse.
Yes Sir, You said absolutely right, sir!
But there is one problem in today's youth.
They have more interest in sports, on garments.
Whom clothes are you ironing?
Brother ' s, he has to go for interview from eleven ' o ' clock.
He will go for an interview wearing these clothes?
Oh, where are you from one year and where are you going?
Oh , our Jagannath , do you remember?
Nowadays he has become a social worker.
Going to take Kurta-Payajama from him just for a day, there is an interview.
Kurta-Payajama for the interview?
Hi hero, Whose work are you doing?
Friend, I am working in a mythological mystery, a suspense drama- who is the husband of Parvati.
Oh, friend, I forgot to make you meet, this is my childhood friend, bossom friend Mr. Prasad and about him there is no need to say.
Blood is coming out from this place of yours.
Yes, this is the makeup.
What is your opinion about Sunil Gavashakar?
Yes, yes, popular player of the cricket.
I apologies Sir, I have very little knowledge about cricket.
Bravo, my boy, I was frightening, uselessly.
Even though you were not a charted accountant then would have earned good enough working in drama company.
That is fine, uncle, But this mini Kurta, how mini Kurta will work?
This is of others, you make it of your measurement,.
Oh, no brother, that is the goof up which occurred.
People might be axing on their feet, I have put my feet over the axe.
There, I talked wisdom for the world that my father used to say that small Kurta must be worn.
Now, how will I break the order of the father?
Oh yes , Kurta is a little short.
I love with you , Mahendra!
Girl, Name of the husband should not be taken.
It should be said like this, O, Jee, do you listen.
Oh my God, Aunty, This is modern drama.
But what is the need there to do such an inauspicious drama.
If there is to do the drama then why don't you drama like Jay Santoshi Maa, Bhakt Prahlaad, is not it Brother?
Do you want to listen or not, are you going to listen?
Oh, what is the matter, Ram Prasad, It is not yet nine ' o ' clock and did you start to work?
I had come on 8 ' o ' Clock, Master!
Yesterday, boss had told to prepare the file of Ahuja and Ahuja.
Oh, for that what had been rushed for, there is a whole day, has not he asked for file in the evening?
No Bade Babu, My father used to say that whatever you are supposed to do tomorrow do it today and whatever you are supposed to do today do it now.
The thing you have said , at the same subject a poet from the new generation has said like this , do the todays work tomorrow , work of tomorrow day after tomorrow , son what is there to rush for , when we are going to live for years.
But you did not ask that who has written this poem.
Dispatch it today itself.
Yes, I have to go due to work, now.
You wait here, Phone of Mr. Khanna will come at 5 ' O ' clock , Very important phone , you talk to him.
Yes, yes; Yes, I send it now.
It was any of your neighbor's phone.
I am sorry, I will refuse.
No, no, health of your mother has been worsen suddenly.
Tell me first that how is your mother now?
Now it is fine sir, it is saying of the doctor that now there is nothing to tension.
But what problem has happened to her?
It was problem of breathing, it is not there now.
Oh, very good, yesterday if Govinda and Ashok Kumar were also there in the test match, would not it have been fun then?
Test match, I did not understand, sir!
Don't pretend, you damn liar, I am like your father and how did you dare to lie to me.
Is the old man is at home?
The, your owner, Bhawanishankar.
Who did tell you this that Bhawanishankar is old?
O, gardener, Whose name is Bhawanishankar, he became old just after taking birth.
You sit here, I call him.
It seems, Ramprasad has been stuck somewhere, but where has he gone?
I don't know, Dr. Uncle, Today morning he went out so early from the house that I could not know even.
From two days, you are looking very distressed.
I am also distressed, it seems from the talk of the Bhawanishankar that any man from his office has cheated him.
Brother came.
Brother, Doctor uncle has come.
Then now you need a mother, what?
O, friend, Your story is becoming very complicated.
I had thought this first that I will direct your story myself, but it seems that we will have to call any big hit director of commercial film because there is no logic remained in your story.
First wanted Kurta, then wanted mustache, then wanted a mother.
See, you think about the story later, first think about me.
I want a mother, tomorrow itself.
Then what is the problem in this, I say to Aruna just now, she will be your mother today itself.
Oh, have you gone made?
Why are you getting off your shoes, let it be.
Wow, how pious environment!
Please, you sit, sir!
You would have made your sari proper.
A very thank you, Mrs. Shrivastav, You did wonderful in the acting of the mother and saved from the crisis like mother also.
Keep this Ramprasad properly, now Ramprasad will die and Lucky Prasad will live, he will teach music to the daughter of Bhavani Babu.
Shall I make and bring tea for you Aunty.
Ratna, Daughter, come near to me.
See, in front of everyone you tell me aunty that is fine, can't you tell me mother in lonely?
It seems, have we both ever met before somewhere.
Yes, it does not seem to me.
What is your good name?
I am called Bhawanishankar.
Yes, I am called Kamla, Kamla Shrivastav, Mrs. Kamla Shrivastav.
It is strange, not just face only, it seems I have heard your voice even.
We must have met before.
Ok, ok, have you met with Mrs. Sharma from Khar?
Lakshama, With whom are you talking?
Mother, You came, mother!
I mean, did you come after taking a bath?
You talk with him mother, I come just now.
How are you mother?
Oh, not, It does not feel to eat.
What, Does not it feel to eat Dahi-wada?
If girl is refusing to eat Dahi-wada then it has two meanings.
Either she is becoming a boy from a girl gradually.
No-no, that symptoms are not shown to me also, then other thing is right.
What is the other reason?
Certainly you have fallen in love.
Is Lucky Jee at home?
No any Lucky Jee lives here.
I mean it from Lakshman Jee.
Ohho, Then you are asking about younger brother.
Are you Urmila Jee?
How did you recognise?
Chote Bhaiya does talk about you so much, does talk so much that you have been by hearted to me.
What does he say about me?
O, Jijajee, Jijajee, What are you doing here?
Sister is waiting for you there.
Yes, see that, that, waiting there.
Oh, What are you doing, I am in a hurry, open the door.
Oh, what happened brother, What happened?
See, I was going inside, one man called me saying brother-in-law and I stopped, closed the door gong inside.
Is this any manner?
It means that his need was more than you.
Then why is he coming to meet me today, again?
No idea, yesterday said all of a sudden that will come to meet your mother, have very important work.
Now these things does not please me, the day he will come to know then what does he will think about us.
What do you think, am I liking all this drama, but what to do?
One day, collect the courage and tell him everything.
No, the same day holding my ears he will fire me from the job.
But mother, Something must be done.
But I will not make this marriage, daddy!
My marriage is going to happen, daddy, And even you did not try to know my likes and dislikes.
I did not think it necessary.
What will you know that is your choice right or not?
Now I has been mature, daddy!
Have you become mature than me?
Why don't you try to understand, daddy, Perhaps someone else would be my choice.
Ohho, In your opinion, you have love with someone.
Is not your brother Laxman at home?
No, sir, but what did happen?
My daughter has run away from home, taking help with him.
I am going to inform the police.
No, no sir, Being kind to me don't do this, every secret will be disclosed.
Police will come and do inquiry, then I will not remain from anywhere, I will be trapped.
How will you trapped?
Bhawani, What is this stupidity?
I am your friend, trust over me.
Even I have some relation with Urmila, your respect is my respect.
If these questions can be solved raising blood pressure, then raise it fondly.
If I don't raise the blood pressure then shall I blew the bugle thinking of it that your favorite, rake, cadish, mustache less nephew has taken away my innocent daughter.
Then yell too much, scream too much, there is the benefit of Lakshman in this.
Oh, no, no, it became too much.
From where has it been more, From this much puries your uncle used to just start.
Always used to say, Kalindi, You speak much, eat less.
But, son, I could not fulfill his one pursuit, just after your marriage, I will fulfill it.
He was very fond off to eat Muglai Paratha of radish.
One day with the huge effort I made Paratha reading books for him, but just after eating first paratha he passed away on the table itself.
Son, Just after marriage, I will make such Parathas of radish for you.
No Aunty, Not the paratha of radishes, make me eat paratha of potatoes itself.
Sit here, Sahab will just come.
I am not the inspector.
He is not an inspector, then certainly will be some thief, shoplifter, punk, cadish.
What Sorry , this is the police station either there will be police here or there will be thief, shoplifter , punk , cadish, some saint would not be here.
No, I am a businessman.
Mother, make me eat food in a hurry, I am very hungry.
Oh, what is this, be a human and eat properly, first wash your hand and mouth.
The vehicle is coming, mother!
Oh, Vehicles will come and go, are you going to think something for shop or not?
Father has died doing labor that I will leave the shop for the son and son is after to be a guide.
Mother, Who ever tourist comes from Mumbai, from Madras, from Calcutta, Singapur, Hongkong, Rome and Paris, getting down at the station what does he ask, where is Raju guide.
Dharmveer Jee, After years the fate of this temple has awaken.
What is the name of this village?
Name of the village is Rampuri, my innocent.
From where have you come and where will you go from here?
It is not in our hand always to go and to come, friend!
Man wants, I walk here and fate takes draging there, thinks, I will go here, holding nose drags there.
Your words are the line of the stone.
Getting tired one day I called fate near to me and asked that tell, what do you want?
Started to say leave the arbitrariness, walk holding my finger.
Fine, I said amen.
Swamijee, I brought some fruits for you.
She was not coming at all, I said that a big saint has come, In the temptation of sight she came.
It was a time, Bhola, That I had lost faith in humanity.
Heart used to cry, the whole world used to seem like the enemy, but nothing happened which would not go in vain, there is no such pain which does not have a remedy.
What is the name of the daughter?
The magic of the Gods, this earth, this sky, this air, that mountain, this temple, I, you, Bhola and all are not the play of the delusion?
But the true thing is this, Maya, that the love which could be gotten from a husband, which can not be given by hundred step brothers and five hundred step sister-in-law also, did I say wrong?
Then take this, eat it like prasad, God will do well.
Pick up the reliquary and take the path of woods, Shastri!
What do you say Pandit, Come with me.
Let us also take the sight.
Let two of us nescient also do the pilgrimage.
What name had you told of him?
What will you do knowing the name, Pandit Jee?
I have come here to ask your knowledge itself, but you just sit, please.
When a chivalrous like you is standing then how this nutshell may dare to sit.
You have got good teaching.
Listen mister, It seems You are from here itself.
Can you tell, from where address of Raju Guide could be taken?
Why not, from any child, from any passenger, from any coolie, in fact, I say that you must ask from the train engine.
I am asking from you Sahab, From you.
If asking from any gentleman then ask properly.
Did it say to you to come in between?
Let go to hell the guide, I will manage without guide also.
You will manage, what will happen to me?
It had known, you are coming together, will be a problem.
Fine, we go in a hurry after washing hand-mouth.
It's impossible, Huzur, It will be the night while reaching there, then when will we be back?
To go there we should start in the morning.
Then its mean, did today's day go in vain?
Sahab, If day will be spoilt then which kind I will be, such beautiful things are here to see that.
I don't have time for useless things, I have come just to see the caves.
Perhaps you are forgetting that I am also with you and I also might will have interest besides those caves.
Yes, why not, see, is there any good library here?
Then drop me there and show the city to madam.
Madam will not go alone.
Where should I go first, Madam!
In the hell, but first let's go.
If they are supposed to go into the hell, then why do people come to Udaypur, Gafur, Do not, we understand it heaven?
Your statement is right, friend Raju, But sit silently for now.
This is the library of our city.
Yes, I understood, friend Raju, But you keep quiet.
But I did not understand.
See, if you are such a rude tourist that even it hurts you that your guide open the mouth then this is taxi, he is Gafur and this man is going.
Have you awakened, How is your health?
What are you doing here?
Did not you come in the night also?
Some more work came in front then.
Work, Which work came which is dearer than my life also?
Yes, he does not have idea that you.
Does not know, Must have understood that it will also be any false bravado that whatever I say can not show it doing.
Oh , you are standing here completely fine?
Did not you become happy?
But Raju has some thing else to me..
See Roji, If you are all right and could walk properly, then instead of calling me, you yourself could have come there.
I have not called anyone here and I had not wanted to go there.
Ohho, Why do not you understand, I don't have time even to breathe.
Who is responsible for the time, which was spoiled in coming here?
If your time is being spoiled in seeing your sick wife, then her life is being spoiled in living with you, who is responsible for that?
Tell me this first, that what is the meaning of taking poison?
In this new city what was the meaning to defame me?
What is that thing which my money can buy and I did not give you, even though you want to show that I torture you so much that you don't want to live.
You are a wonderful dancer.
You have this much talent then why did you quit to dance?
What should I say, this is the opinion of Marco that dancing-singing is the profession of prostitutes.
Where is such man with the good opinion and how did mingle with the fair dancer?
And what was the other way, A mother, traditional devadasi, how she would have taken out daughter from that environment.
See the fate, someone came in front also that is Marco.
He accepted me, did the grace, made daughter-in-law did obligation to me, such a huge house, many servants, huge money, huge name, this much comfort..
Did you see Raju, This happens, by driving motor on the road made for the donkeys and bull carts.
When get down from the road then comes with grace, but car has to see down like this.
I know how stubborn is she!
If she will refuse to go in the mid night, then I can not abuse in front of madam even.
Oh my friend, take half of the bedsheet.
Oh brother, It is very cold, Baba, Let me muffle also.
Raju, O Raju, Please get up and see.
If I was in her position, then I would have spitted thrice over the face of that idiot and then would have said divorce, divorce, divorce.
If this is your decision, then every woman will have shame over your life.
If a man does not establish then is there not some other way to establish.
Man cannot give happiness then is not happiness some other place in the world.
Marco is also unhappy with you, but he does not go and strike his head against the wall.
How does he entertain with the stone idols going in the caves?
Just because he is a man and you wriggle yourself because you are a woman.
It is wrong Roji, It is wrong.
Today your situation is like this because you did not learn to protest from this situation.
Either take this oath that the feet which kicks you will keep licking his sole till last breaths, if not, then it is not sin to get up and show your right.
Sin is to lay over here, to bear the torture.
It is a sin to give up from the life, it is a sin to live smothering.
It is sin to kill self while living, it sin to suicide, it is sin Roji, It is sin.
No one is someone's slave, no one is dependent on someone, name of the helplessness is a misconception.
Oh friend, Who is asking for orange, I am asking the address of Raju guide.
I told you that Raju guide does not live here any more.
He has eloped with a dancer.
It is your vacation from today onwards.
But you did not come during so many days.
O , do you go , or shall I chase away you kicking off?
Who are you to abduct me?
Now this shop is not yours.
O son of the Bapu, where are all the stuffs and how come this cash box is empty?
O, why are you strangling with a child, talk to me.
Your son has taken away my shop.
How peaceful is it now, did not you feel bad?
Raju, I did think, I will go.
I thought also.
You will not go, that's it.
I don't want to hear anything.
It has remained just one hour to leave the vehicle, are passengers ready?
Though, due to this girl there was a brightness in the house, but what to do?
Roji, Child, Do you know, the train is at four thirty, did you pack the luggage?
Oh, What is this, These clothes of yours are still lying here?
You know it very well mother that Roji is not going anywhere.
Whose radiant anklet chimes has tickled the youth heart, can someone tell me that where does the famous worshiper of the art, Miss Nalini live?
And may I ask, who does want to know this?
Yes, man is an ordinary guide, name Raju, work to serve the public.
And even the public, who like to increase their knowledge with outings.
Which kind of service, I become their eyes and present in front of them the scenery making colourful by my heart.
It might be that truth is adulterated with false and false with the truth, but what will you do, it is the time of adulteration.
Now a day without adulteration even ghee does not spread the smell and what to say about human.
How much adulteration will be there, it will be anticipated that much perfect.
Whatever, what story I also have started to tell.
I am sorry, miss Nalini is tired this time, taking rest.
You come some other day.
You, When last time we met, then you were addressing me with honor.
The last time when we met, then dancing was assumed as a profession of prostitutes.
I want to meet Roji.
Roji does not want to meet you.
Did you ask her?
See Raju, I want to meet her up once.
Mr. Marco, I am behaving decently with you, you go back decently.
If you will try to go inside forcefully,then I will be helpless to throw you out forcefully.
At this time what are you doing in my room?
No, speaking in sleep.
Nowadays, just in drunkenness Roji gets remembered.
In remembrance get drunk and in drunkenness do remember.
Fine go, now go to sleep in your room.
Nowadays you always say go, have you forgotten to say come?
Sir, there is a parcel on the name of the Roji Marco.
To take till the caves Raju Guide from the Udayapur helped me out, I am grateful for that.
But do you know Raju, That, till now not a single expert reached till here because this work was written in my fate.
I had remained to discover this, to understand its worth, to give its name and fame which should be its.
But don't wonder Raju, your name will also come in the book because you are the man who brought me here.
Can not Roji be stayed away?
I have come to try, will not you help?
I don't have any grievance with you, Raju.
I have this grievance that you don't have any grievance.
I want that you cry, yell, abuse me, offcourse give me one-two slap, but do something from that it comes to know that you care for me.
This much grace even you had done over Marco.
Around the heart kind of a fort has been formed, no trace does reach till there now, not of happiness, not of sadness.
You are free from my side, Raju, in fact, I am happy that you got the way to get the happiness.
Don't put me away, Roji, I will keep sinking more.
Please Raju, I have got very tired.
Raju, Which kind of joke is this?
If it was a joke then what a matter it was, no palaces are broken, no paths are met, no paths are bifurcated, the joke is this that this is not a joke.
It is necessary to do this farce.
The one who has become a farce, what farce will he do?
Come, I will leave you till the car.
Ok, now you go and change the clothes, I wait for you.
Waited for long, on such a path which is not your path to travel.
What has happened to you suddenly.
See, it is becoming the show time.
I thought, not just from the Nalini's home, you have flown from the city itself.
How did you come friend?
Not friendship, today duty has brought me here.
You did not do right, Raju, you would have done with someone else, but you should not have done such fraud with Roji.
When her income in lakhs was in your hands with her own wish then jewelry of thirty thousands were what the thing, in the greed of that you did this forge signature.
Who did say to you?
Who said to me, the whole city knows.
Raju, Where are you brother, now even dance ended.
Was chat done with Roji?
What have you done, Raju?
If there was the need of money then you would have told me, I would have sold out my jwellery, but why did you do so?
I used to think, any one will understand or not, Roji will certainly understand.
The fact is this Raju, that I did not understand you, you did not understand me.
Today I say you the story which my mother had told me don't know how many times during my childhood.
Once a huge famine occurred.
The chest of the earth broken, a single drop of the rain did not fall.
Animals-birds were dying due to hunger-thrust already, men-women started to die wriggling.
Even Deity got frighten that is god destroying the human kind?
This story is of that saint, who kept fast for twelve days continuously and made God helpless to rain.
How do you talk without continuation, sit here in front and tell what did happen?
Did villagers fight?
Did you rob the shopkeeper's shop?
During this bad day instead of supporting each other such bloodshed?
In this village do men live or licentious?
Go, go and tell that any single life will lost, then I will give away my life.
Bhola, What is all this crap?
I never claimed that I am a saint.
If I was also, even though will it rain starving myself?
These are the things about stories, even that of the stories of children.
You take back these villagers , make them understand that I have given the threat to starve myself , just to end up the nuisance.
And since this objective has been fulfilled, you people go back to your home and send for me something to eat.
Due to hunger I have worst condition, go.
What do you look expanding eyes?
Master, Be pity on us.
SwamiJee, This madam has come from America to meet you up.
Any big television company of there has sent her.
She wants to ask some questions from you, is there permission?
Swamijee, Do you beleive in fasting.
Forty crore people if take fast on a day then forty crore hungry stomach could eat one day food.
Swamijee, Do you believe that it will rain?
These people have trusted over me and now I started to trust over their trust.
Swamijee, This madam is asking that had you ever loved?
If it will not rain, then what will happen?
From the life I had run away becoming hopeless, that is chasing, calling back, promising for happiness.
The hope of the thousand poor will be washed off, there faith will be ruined.
Do you believe that it will rain?
You also started to become superstitious like these illiterates.
Raju, Did you start to think that hunger of a man may have any connection with the clouds?
I don't know Raju, complexities are growing.
I started to think such things I had never thought of them essential, but to think those are more essential than the life and death.
God, They are thinking me your child and how far away you are with me.
Not mine, hear them.
Take my life, take away their pain, God.
How free I am feeling today.
Like the body forgot to demand, mind forgot to wriggle-make wriggle, life is like in the fist, death is like a game.
It seems today every demand was fulfilled, but see the fun, today no wish has remained.
At least don't let go the desire to live.
Life became light by melting and truth is my form.
Body remain or not remain, I will remain.
Throw me in the fire, I will not burn, hit through the sword, I will not be cut.
Time of the auspicious timing is passing and you are sleeping.
Time of the auspicious timing has been passed away before the two and half hour.
What are you doing?
Idiot, Why did not guest arrive yet?
You had called twenty five, where are they?
Yes, yes, all of your twenty five have come.
My mind is telling that guests will certainly come, we wait.
Then what were we doing yet?
Always remember this, the hard work and honesty always get rewarded.
Waiting for three months not a single customer came, today you have been sawn, at least you come.
When did you come?
Did you get the work from ' Khabardar ' ?
Nothing got, just now coming after meeting workers.
How long it will go like this, think some idea.
How many times I have told you that it is just one, good salesmanship.
Now say, how many copies I will make for you?
Oh, I have not come here to be photographed.
Then, for what have you come?
I have come to take the rent of this shop, which you have not given to the house owner for three months, that.
Rent, rent, if you had come to take rent then why did not you tell me initially?
But when did you give me the chance?
What would I do, How busy we are that we do not get the chance , how many works , does not care.
You do this that you go, I will send you check just after the arrival of partner.
What was there the need you to show me that postcard of Hemamalini?
Take care of one thing, the every work of the ' Khabardar ' magazine is very secret.
Here, the secret of the big personalities of the city is disclosed.
Be aware from the Ashok of the neighboring photo studio.
Yes, I will be aware.
Because he is the man of Tanreja.
Who is Mr. Tanreja?
He has made this studio so that he could spy against the Khabardar magazine.
You people do not know Tarneja?
When did you come back from America, You took so many days this time?
Oh Yes-Yes , such was the nature of work of the drainage system of that place , You know I used to study the gutter system.
Great, America is so wonderful, the drinking water and the gutter water is separate there.
We lag behind , we should do something but we are helpless.
America is very different sir, we are behind them in terms of gutter and below them in terms of buildings.
Sir,they have 100 storeyed buildings there.
Of course, I saw that.
Yes I remember, the government has announced that the buildings that will be build in the slum area shall be allowed more..
Yes , they shall be allowed to build more localities and buildings and we are not being permitted 24-25.
Taeneja!What happened to the flyover at Mahim?
It has been three years, When will it finish?
It will be over very soon Dinello!But I should only get the contracts of other bridges.
Let us sit and talk, Come over to my beach house.
Yes, I remember an important thing.
What rubbish news is this " khabardar " magazine publishing about us?
It has even published that I take bribe from you.
How does it know about our confidential things?
Don't be scared Dinello, insects like ' Khabardar ' keep buzzing, I shall treat them.
How did they both come inside, Were you sleeping?
No, I was watching them.
Have you completed the Beauty photo studio's work?
That is under process, Madam.
Under Process, What is happening?
You cannot do anything, I will have to go myself.
I will go and see whether they are worthy of our assignments and trust or not?
Do you know who am I, I am the editor of ' Khabardar '.
Hey, where is Sudheer, A customer has come.
Gudmorning & Welcome, Vinod,the fifty percent owner of the Beautiful photo studio warmly welcomes you.
And promises to click a gorgeous and unequaled photo of you , seeing which all the men of the world will sit holding their hearts.
Being a professional photographer I can look into your eyes and see what is there inside your heart- Dream of becoming a model.
Only one person can make it a reality and he is..
Sudheer, Where were you, A customer had come.
And look at her , when she had first come to your shop , she wore veil , and now see.
I will be much ahead of her.
Can you see the tender that Tarneja has given to the commissioner.
I need his photographs at any cost.
Shobha jee what are you saying?
I am right, think of some idea.
Shobha jee, What are you saying , there are four men sitting inside , I can't think of clicking a photograph , it is even difficult to get inside.
And did you see the pistol, Others must have been possessing it.
Ahuja, You drink a lot, How will you listen to my talks if you drink?
I drink from mouth, not from ears, Talk about the new scandal.
Actually, four new flyovers of municipal corporation are to be made, many tenders have come,your ' s, Tarneja ' s, I saw your tender.It is good.
So what it is good, I will not get it, You like only one person.
Mister Dinello, I can give you double the money of what Tarneja is being offered.
Alright then, You get the contract of four bridges.
You are feeding my cake to my enemy in front of me only?
Mister Vinod Chauhan, Keep it very clear in your mind that we have a professional relationship and not of a master and servant, Do you understand?
Now stand up and listen what next you have to do.
Yes, What do I need to do?
You have to secretly get inside Tarneja's bunglow , there is supposed to be an agreement on the bridges between him and Ahuja.
See, being a servant I shall also tell you that we are here to click photographs not to be clicked.
Tarneja must have clicked it that day through pistol.
The master has nothing to loss , after all you have no feelings, We have it , but sorry master, this Tarneja business is very dangerous.
So you will not go?
No ,we will definitely not go.
You ' ll starve to death.
We are already dieing with starvation.
You did not see it now, I had fallen down because of weakness.
You do not even give sufficient money to eat, I cannot do this risky work master.
Can you understand it, Really?
I swear it on your name Shobha.
So you ' ll go to Tarneja's bunglow?
What are you thinking?
I am thinking whether I really understand you or I am trying to understand you.
I guess I am trying.
I know, I am alone in this crowded world, nobody is with me.
Hey, I am with you.
Don't touch me, Who am I to you?
I have no possession on you.
Because you suspect that I am entrapping you.
You spoilt my work.
You snatched the contract of four bridges that I was supposed to get.
Buddy, Actually I have the facility to make the bridge.
Why not we work together , You make two bridges and I shall make the other two.
Sir, Shall I say something if you don't mind?
This is Ashok speaking.
Speak slowly, Don't shout, Is there anybody around you?
No-No, Nobody is there.
Are all the doors and windows shut?
You are such a substandard person.
Listen to me carefully, It is very secret.
I want to speak something about Shobha,the editor of ' Khabardar '.
She has taken photographs of your tender.
You will become dumb by listening to the thing that I am going to speak now.
I am screaming since long, You people do not even listen.
I want to talk something important to you.
None of you are getting the contract of the bridges that you are fighting over.
What do you want to say?
The commissioner has made a fool of us, he has given all these contracts to some third person.
What, How can this happen?
He has taken bribe from me.
Sir, he has also taken bribe from us but this is absolutely true.
How did you know?
Sir, the assistant commissioner himself told me.
Wow, Vinod, What do you think about this?
Alright, it is quite beautiful but not a prize winning thing.
If you send this to the competition, they will drive you away.
Look at my photograph according to the human feelings.
How do you find your photograph that is visible in the mirror.
See, Isn't there your reflection?
Who is this idiot that has come?
It is not me.
I am very happy commissioner Srivastava that you have come to inaugurate this bridge.
We are glad that today the bridge, Dimello is being inaugurated.
This bridge is the fruit of the hard work of thousands of people and its construction is a very big step in the development of Mumbai city.
This bridge is the symbol of our hard work, perseverance and unity.
And yes, it is not just a bridge but the dream of lakhs of people of this city.
It is not for an individual but for the entire society, whether someone has Mercedes, or is a costermonger: a industrialist, or a vegetable vendor; whether a leader of this country or peon.
And many poor people shall one day build their homes beneath this bridge.
It is a matter of grief that the person who is actually the pillar of this bridge is not with us anymore.
It is said that every success has some sin associated with it, You are at the peak of success, what do you have to say?
No, What bookish things are you saying?
Success only needs hard work and honesty.
Your labor also works very hard Mr. Tarneja, He is left to survive in the hell.
What did you do ten years back- An ordinary contractor.
Brother, You press people are jealous of anybody's success.
Brain, perseverance and ideals are required to rise high.
Our work is to expose the hidden filth associated with these ideals.
Why do you see everything with suspicion?
You have to forget all the little talks and problems of everyday life and who doesn't want to rise high?
But Mr. Tarneja is rising very high.
Now nobody can save him, not at any cost, What was the need to open his mouth?
Our dead bodies shall be found in the parks and behind the trees in the bushes.
Sudheer, Whatever I do, I do it deliberately, Do you understand?
Whether I am the elder or not?
Yes, Yes you are a big careless person.
You know what was lying there at the flyover?
This is' Khabardar's editor Shobha speaking.
I don't have time for useless interviews.
No, No, Don't disconnect the call Mr. Tarneja, else you will regret.
I want to talk to you about commissioner Dimello.
It has been very long he has passed away.
He has passed away or has been killed?
I can prove that he has been murdered and also that you have committed this crime.
What rubbish are you talking?
Right now, I have that photograph where you are clearly seen firing the bullet at Mr. Dimello.
Mr.Tarneja, What do you think, what is the reason behind the downfall of this bridge?
The inquiry committee will tell the reasons, but yes, I have not left any scope.
I have used the best cement, imported cement and imported materials.
I have the faith that the chairman of the inquiry committee shall definitely reach an outcome.
If my materials were faulty then many buildings of Mumbai must have fallen by this time.
Who can question you, but still question?
You yourself know the answer my friend, think.
Yes, this bridge has not fallen but made to fall.
It is a conspiracy, somebody wants to defame me.
Tarneja is caught now, it is impossible for him to be free from my grips.
Now Ahuja is also with me, both of us will together destroy him.
You people are also with me?
Shobha Jee, You need not ask this.
We will give you full support in teaching a lesson to that Tarneja.
See Sudheer, Didn't I tell you that truth always wins and the evil loses.
Listen, I shall not wait more, I shall publish this issue right now.
That Tarneja is fooling people and that bald Srivastava is supporting him.
Ahuja , how did the bridge collapse then?
Shobha jee, We mix sand in cement and he mixes cement in sand , the bridge had to collapse.
But Ahuja, Tarneja will somehow escape, he has big sources.
He will make the authorities believe that the bridge has collapsed due to some sabotage.
How can he make them believe this, There has not been any explosion neither any destruction.
Shobha Jee sand's bridge had to collapse.
I crossed that bridge last night , the bridge was unharmed that time , in fact I also offered lift to a person.
Whom did you offer a lift, That person can also become a witness.
I do not know who that idiot was.
Hey, its good that I locked the car, now nobody can go from here.
Tell me where have you kept the dead body?
Did you see the dead body is not there.
It is not the time to walk slow.
Oh shit, Ahuja has locked the car.
We cannot escape, they must have been searching us.
We must send this dead body to the police station soon.
Wow , Shakuni mama, You have thrown the dice so well, We won the entire kingdom of the Pandavas.
Now whom will you put at stake Yudhishthir?
Take one more move Dharmaraj and take back your entire kingdom, Do you have the courage?
Put all the Pandavas at stake if you have the courage.
I accept.
Yudhisthir, You put your four brothers and yourself at stake and you lost , now Draupadi is left.Do you accept?
Elder brother, Pandavas lost their entire kingdom in gamble, What will they put on stake now?
We have won that Draupadi whom the Pandavas had won before.
Draupadi did not remain queen anymore, she is now my maid.
What is happening son Duryodhan, Don't offend the honor of Draupadi.
Father, She had only laughed at me one day when I fell into the water, She declared me as a blind being a blind's son.
Duhshashan, Step forward, unclothe her and make her sit on my thighs.
We can never breach the honor of Draupadi, We don't have that fire to make her nude.
Hey, what has happened to Dubey's face?
I can never do anything against Draupadi, Hats off to such an honorable lady.
Uncover your eyes and see what is there in this sacred Aryan lady.Hats off to such an honorable lady.
Brother, What are you doing?
Alright, let me unclothe her.
No, Listen to me, Come here.
Yes Dusshashan, Did you understand what I said?
Yes, You are absolutely correct brother, I have done a mistake, the unclothing of Darupadi bhabhi (sister in law) cannot take place.
Alright Pandava brother, Go back to your home.
We will send back Draupadi bhabi(sister in law) to you after dinner.
Draupadi is not only yours, We all are share holders.
But we have to obey the elder brother.
This is how it is written in the play.
I have never even obeyed my father's order, You are nothing.
Be careful Bheem, You are insulting the elder brother in front of everybody in the court.
Just shut up Arjun singh.
What is happening?
Hey Arjun, Its your insult.
If this donkey carries bludgeon then you also carry bow.
S.K., It was very essential for this terrorist to remain alive, I had also told you.
Yes Sir, But I am not responsible for that.
He has committed suicide, nobody has killed him.
S.K., he was under your charge.
Look, death becomes easy when the body crosses a certain level of pain, the terror of death escapes and the culprit is not allowed to cross that limit.
I am sorry sir, I woke you up at the mid night.
At what time did he commit suicide?
During evening, when the prisoners come out.
When did you come to know about this?
At eight o ' clock when the I found the cell empty.
Was the cell open?
What are doing boys, Is this the place to play?
Don't play with the ball of stone, You will hurt yourself.
Grand mother, We were ten years old since when you are objecting Jaswant.
He has not learnt yet.
Even you have not not understood.
I have understood, Hold this stick and teach him.
I shall beat him and you shall feel the pain, as if I do not know you both.
I have heard that you have sheltered a terrorist at your house.
Terrorist, Which terrorist are you talking about?
What is your name?
Kripal, how are you related to him?
Sir, he is my sister's fiance.
How many person's are there at your home, I mean your family members.
All these people that are out or is there anyone else who is also inside?
There must be servants, Is there a guest at your house these days?
Why are you asking them Vora, Talk to me.
I have come from Bhemri, Sir.
The police took away my brother , they said that they will release him in half an hour but it has been three hours and there is no news from him.
What did he do?
Nothing Sahib , Police came to our house searching a terrorist named Jimmy.
Did he hid himself at your house?
We do not know anyone with the name Jimmy.
Who is this Jimmy then?
It is the name of our dog.
Sir jee, I could not get anything, but got some mahaprasad after searching?
Yes, Alright, alright, Keep it inside.
There is law and order son, It prevails since the beginning but these locks do not open with those keys, That is why people have started breaking them.
Then what shall we do?
I will put your appeal at the court tomorrow but.
Look Sir, It is my right, Why are you calling it appeal all the time?
The law takes away my brother without any reason and you.
He has not done anything Sir jee.
His only fault is that he has named his dog Jimmy and the police was searching for some Jimmy and took him away.
It has been 15 days and he is nowhere to be found, His mother has fainted ten times.
The sister has lost herself after crying a lot and you, Will you call it justice?
Is this not the torture of the law, the police?
The police is meant to protect the law, Isn't it?
There should be something to protect, The law is not there on either sides.
It is like a guerrilla war, whoever gets the chance, puts the raid.
you will not be able to do anything Professor sahib.
The situation is even worst than it was during the Partition.
What shall I say now, It can only be understood by the person who feels the pain.
A person tolerates a mistake or a crime but cannot tolerate an innocent being punished.
The terrorists have also disturbed a lot.
Do the terrorists grow at fields?
The country and the government does not seem to be mine.
Do they belong to this country?
Grand mother, Has Pali come?
I have no idea when he comes and leaves these days, I have not met him.
I know, He can't see my pains but he should have seen me.
That day he threw the ointment and went.
He has not come since then, It has been eight days.
Alright, but who was driving the tractor at the backside then?
She is Viran, She is looking over the farm work these days.
Viran, Hey when did she learn to drive tractors?
When did you learn to drive tractors?
Kripal has taught you this, Didn't he?
See brother Pali, It is raining again.It is also uncertain like your mood.
It is a wonderful place Nanu uncle, I could have settled here if I had the opportunity.
What I should have done, Graze the cattle?
So what, If Ranjha can graze the cattle then we are little Ranjhas of sheep's size.
What was the matter, You could have also brought your beloved, Veeran.
I do not know uncle what could have happened?
How long has it been, A year?
It has been a year we have come here, I had seen him sometime four-five months back.
You still miss him, Don't you?
Bhai Sahib, What's your name Bhai Sahib?
What's the matter brother?
I guess I have seen you before.
Yes, Yes, You must have seen me, my photographs get published in a lot of newspapers.
Hey why are you wasting the Lassi, Go and do your work.
Look Bhai Sahib, I am not a thief or a bad person neither do I carry a weapon that I ' ll harm you.
Perhaps you can help me.
I had come out searching for some one but you please listen to me.
Hey, what is there?
Nothing is there, A couple of our boys, no goods.
You can certainly check it.
I was in school, when the teacher asked in the class , how did we get independence?
I was very little but still remember the scenes of the partition quite well.
The teacher made me stand before the class and then asked the other students of the class that who brought us independence, Say do you have any answer?
Was there a single person who fought and brought independence and gave that to us saying take it, we have brought independence for you.
We lost our fore fathers, we faced the bloodshed, our houses were destroyed and someone else brought the independence?
What is the name of your party?
I am not associated with any party.
I am not fighting the war of any religion or country, I am fighting the war of my constraints and helplessness.
This system wants to prove me unmanly but I am not an unmanly person.
Our forefathers were in a critical condition when they had come here from there to again become critical.
Brother, They had come to their house only.
What name did they get coming to their own motherland, they are refugees.
Is there someone also above the chief who is driving this movement?
Look dear, When an innocent persons is punished, he continues to get punished, When he cannot fight alone, he gathers people undergoing the same situation.
Sometimes in the name of locality, caste and religion and the country but his war is always against injustice.
See the history whenever you want, It has been happening and it will continue to happen.
Then why is the law there?
Has the law resolved any matter?
Don't you listen, The Inquiry commission keeps working for a couple of decades.
What do you mean, This war will never come to an end?
It has not yet ended.
Are there all the pulses?
Yeah, All the pulses are there.
Taran Singh has also brought two kg of kidney beans.
Hasn't Sahib jee come, Today is Sunday , he usually come on Sunday mornings.
He has come, He is buying vegetables and he must have been buying his non veg also.
Let me leave else everybody shall be in trouble.
You will not do anything like that, Swear by my name, Don't step forward from here.
And my brother is also there, You are his caretaker now.
Come with me, Where do you want to go, I shall leave you.
You shall not go anywhere from here.
Look Jassi, Can you convince Veera?
She is very stubborn.
Hey , will you not meet her?
We had to vacate the farmhouse because we feared that the police could reached there.
And you knew where had I been these days?
Yes, I knew, But I did not know where has the police reached.
The police has reached till the Gurudwara, It is at your footsteps.
If we were not wearing in this outfit , we could have been caught.
But why is the police searching me?
How did they know that I have done that?
Don't go back to your village, the police has kept a stern watch there.
Do you remember inspector Vohra, Your village is under him.
Are you coming from the Gurudwara?
Where were you the whole night?
I was working here till late night.
Is there any news from the commander?
It does not mean this brother.Whose is this, Must be yours, Isn't it?
Buddy can you please give a glass of milk, We were sitting for the tea and the milk curdled.
No , No, brother, Its not mine.It belongs to someone else.
What will you lose with a single glass, You can add water as an interest.
Instead of coming here I ran backward, towards the harvesting.
I was afraid dear!
When the bullet was fired it seemed as if the story has ended today.
A piece of flesh came out with the bullet, It was good that it did not hurt the legs.
We can raid the house if we get any evidence.
Put the goods which are kept here at nanu's place.
There is danger in the way in carrying it.
Kripal be careful, I shall come in sometime from around.
What is the time?
Kedarnath is coming on 13th March.
Who is Kedarnath?
The M.P of the 84 riots, He has become a minister these days.
Is he the same Kedarnath whom Jimmy had attacked in Delhi and escaped?
Yes, Manikaran Sahib is coming to get the blessings after being the minister.
All of them are drama kings, They always act.
Manikaran you have to cross the bridge to visit there, That is the ideal location to kill him.
His car might be bullet proof that is why a missile has been arranged.
I used to hide Grand father's knife in my books.
I stabbed that knife into his stomach in the lift one day.
I threw the books and ran away from there.
Hey , are you talking about the M.P. Kedarnath?
But he, Hey, Are you Jimmy?
Yes, they called me Jimmy there.
What happened Pali?
You can't say anything about Babajee's will.
Where is Pali?
He is outside, He will eat later.
Why not with us today?
Bhabhi(Sister in law) you also eat.
You eat Virjee(elder brother)!I will eat with them.
Veeeran, Shall I call you by this name?
They used to call me like this at home.
You did not tell from the market till here that you are Veeran, Our Kripal's Veeera.
I did not know he is here, I was not told.
How is grandmother?
She has passed away.
What happened grandmother?
You know they again caught Jassi brother.
Yes, I came to know that but.
She just could not tolerate that.
Say, what wrong did we do to anyone that we are pushed into this hell, They ruined the entire house.
How is Jassi?
I know what will happen to him, but is there any news from him?
Have the food at least.
Bhabhi!(sister in law), What is there for breakfast today?
There is halwa dear, You must be happy, you got relief from the kitchen and what is more you got home made food.
These lipped utensils..
Keep it there, I shall wash them.
Veeran, Since when you have come , you remain concerned about the home the entire day.
There were only boys before, so there was no anxiety.
Don't get worried about me.
I can manage the home and also the work for which I have come.
Do you want to take my test?
You will have to give the test that particular day.
Veer je, Don't get angry, he was just kidding.
By the way who is this Nafisa?
Bhabhi, You also started?
Hey, there is nothing hidden between a sister in law and a brother in law.
Tell me, I shall make you both meet.
She is at the other side of the border, Bhabhi(Sister in law).
She was very sweet, she used to orate Quran hearing which I wanted to turn into Islam.
Why did you come back then, You should have stayed there.
Nothing happens with the religion and no religion is bigger than the heart.
People beat me a lot Bhabhi(sister in law), They would have killed me but Nafisa helped me escape.
Can you see that hill, We shall go till there, Shall we go?
From where shall we go?
Lets take the way which follows the hill.
That car is standing there.
Lets go by car.
Ask Ram Singh to arrange the car.
Yes Sir, Everything is safe Sir.
In any case there is no scope of prosecution.
Yeah, I have myself checked all the arrangements.
Absolutely, Minister Sahib can come whenever he wants.
Sir jee, I have sent Simmi and the kid to the hostel.
Yes, To see Dalai lama's hermitage.
Yes, We shall also take his blessing if we meet him.
Let the children see that ambiance also.
That bloody disclosed everything in a single night.
He cannot speak, I swear by the name of Babe that he shall not speak, Never.
He knew I was there, How could he speak?
You are also involved in the conspiracy with him.
Wazeera has himself seen him going to the guest house, where the DC is staying.
I have doubt on you both and keep in my mind he shall never be imprisoned.
Vora Sahib, This girl is his fiance.
She wants to meet Kripal Singh , some secrets might get disclosed, This group might be identified.
No, No, not in the visiting room, It won't be good to bring Kripal singh there in such a condition.
Frisk her so that she cannot take any sort of weapons and let her meet in the cell itself.
Take her to barrack number two.
There will be guard outside and the door will be open, Frisk her properly.
It is not that easy to understand Ghalib, because when he is discussed, the life itself becomes a book and the past memories begin to cast in moulds.
He wanted that man should become human and should live his entire life doing the same.
Such is the culture and tradition of old Delhi which is very different and beautiful even being the capital of the country.
People spread the message of love and dearness to each other here.
Because Ghalib prevails in everybody's heart her.
Ghalib's language is still the language of the place.
Ghalib is still remembered with respect here.
Ghalib was born on 27th December, 1976 in Agra and died on 15th February, 1869 in Delhi.
Programs were held in the mansion of Ghalib situated in the Kashim Jan street of Chandani Chowk on the eve of Mirza Ghalib's Birthday.
Where many people remembered Ghalib by participating in it.
The shine of the mansion was worth watching during the program.
The museum made here was decorated.
While Ghalib wore new clothes and the curtains were cleaned.
The lights of the mansion were also repaired.
On the occasion the founder of the Ghalib foundation and the famous dancer Uma Sharma said that this place is no less than a pilgrimage.
A candle march was started from the town hall office of the municipal corporation in Uma Sharma's leadership.
Which finished at Ghalib's mansion.
The minister Harun Yusuf also remembered Ghalib during the program by lighting candle.
Sudheer Mishra has chosen the subject ' Sexual exploitation at work place ' in ' Inkaar '.
Rahul and Maya work for an ad agency.
Rahul is a popular name of the ad world.
Rahul with his experience and knowledge makes the brilliant Maya sharp.
The film begins with the hearing of internal workable investigation committee.
We get to know about the storms of Rahul and Maya's lives from their statements and favors during the hearing.
Rahul's male ego could not tolerate Maya's success and equality.
At the surface there is the sentimental flow of Rahul and Maya's worsening relations.
After all Rahul is an Indian man.
During the last scenes' Inkar ' becomes an ordinary and time pass film.
Arjun Ram Pal and Chitrangada Singh have portrayed their roles very well on the screen.
Despite a smaller role Gupta Jee ' s(Vipin Sharma)offensive comments are memorable.
If sudheer Mishra had a bold imagination and if he had gone with Maya then ' Inkar ' would have been a progressive film before Mahesh Bhatt's' Earth ' in the 21st century.
He has raised the issue of sexual harassment in the film ' Inkar '.
The way he has very beautifully presented an ordinary story on the screen is mesmerizing.
The logical way which Sudheer Mishra has maintained in the story is commendable.
The way flashback has been used in the interesting presentation of the story is also a big achievement.
The portrayal of allegations and its refusal is so simple that it seems the incident is taking place before the eyes.
The sweet and bitter relationship between C.E.O Rahul Verma(Arjun Ram Pal) and creative director Maya Luthra (Chitrangada Singh) has justifiably been portrayed.
He has not shown anything too colorful that seems awkward.
There are many questions and their answers in the film.
These questions and their answers are significant because the issue of sexual harassment is prevalent in the society from before.
Arjun Ram Pal and Chitrangada Singh have acted equally well.
The villainess of small screen Urvashi Dholakiya emerged as an actor of ' Big Boss '.
When it was asked why did she win while Imam was rejected.
Urvashi says that the people who voted me can reply better.
In fact according to me Imam has not lost.
He became the star entertainer in the house of ' Big Boss '.
I was getting calls for this show since the first season.
I kept on refusing every time.
While stepping into ' Big Boss' , I had thought that I will not stay here for more than three weeks.
During the last phase of ' Big Boss' wrangle between Urvashi and Imam prevailed.
Though both of them looked cool during the stage show with Salman at the end.
I have always been saying that Imam is also a nice person.
He used to care for everybody.
He has humanity , but when he used to show his other side , I did not understand.
His other side troubled everybody.
Yes, this platform provided me the opportunity to show my real face to the world.
There were also bad times in the life but I did not lose morale.
Although I admit that sometimes I also break down because I am a human being.
As far as courage is concerned I know one thing that life is all about saving your existence.
Actor Ram Kapoor will again be seen in the role of a host.
The show being telecast on Life ok from 21st January entitled ' Welcombaji Mehmanbaji ' is the Indian edition of the popular overseas show ' Come dine with me '.
Here anchor Ram Kapoor will go for dinner at a celebrity's house every week with a participant celebrity.
In the first episode Nigar Khan , Sanaya Irani and Manoj Tiwary etc. will visit Ragini Khanna's home with Ram.
Ragini and Nigar hate each other.
Forbes magazine had released a list some time back which had the names of such Hollywood actors whose films were not doing the profit as they were paid.
Apart from the list of Forbes there are a lot many Hollywood superstars that are losing their stardom.
The stars who were at number two in terms of the most paid stars are at number one position in the list of over paid people.
Eddie's film Dr. too little and Shrek series made him popular because of his voice over.
Eddie has grown 51 years old.
Adam Sandlar who is 46 now and who gave so many hit films once upon a time is also listed in the list of overpaid actors now.
Adam Sandler has given super hit comedy films like happy gilmore, wedding singer.
Salman Khan's movie Kahi Pyar na ho jaye was based on the story of Wedding singer.
The movie Aks was based on the film of 48 year old Nicholas.
Will Smith has received the award of the most powerful Hollywood actor in 2007.
He is also a singer.
His films bad boys , independence day , men in black have made him a star in a very short time.
If we see the list of retiring stars in Hollywood then it is obviously long.
Pierce Brosnan, Leonardo De Capriyo, Cameroon Diyaz etc separated from James Bond are also seen gathering their stuffs.
Once again Adhyayan Suman is there in the field.
In ' Dehradun Diary ' - a film made under the banner Ashwagandha entertainment, Adhyayan has played the role of an man named Akash sharma who untiringly struggles to give justice to his elder brother.
His elder brother is killed because of a love relationship.
He loved a girl from a political family and wanted to marry her.
The family members of the girl resented to this relationship.
Playing a role for Dehradun Diary is very significant for Adhyayan suman who has acted in films like ' Hal e dil ' , ' Raz 2 ' and ' Jashn '.
He says that, it is different from my last three films.
I am not a stereotyped hero here.
Ashyayan is the son of the popular actor Shekhar suman.
Is he getting the benefits of being a star son?
While answering this question, Adhyayan says that there is no nepotism in the field of art.
One can make space for himself only if he has caliber.
Adhyayan is working for films such as Himmatwala, Ekanki, Black Sheep and Heartless.
On the last day of 15th Indian theater festival, organized in Delhi the comic play ' Afsana ' entertained the viewers a lot.
Afsana means story.
The play directed by Abhijeet Sen Gupta is comic but through the characters here, it has been tried to put forth the behavior of whites against the blacks in a serious way.
Before the journey of Afsana, the viewers did the perusal of mythical story Ramayana through the northern Ramcharit play.
The play staged in Sanskrit influenced the viewers a lot.
The influential dialogue delivery of the characters of the play in LTG auditorium directed by Bhavbhuti was appreciated.
Finally the characters very beautifully present the reunion of Rama and Sita.
Now Paresh Rawal has also got involved in the list of stars willing to act on television.
I wish to do stand up comedy.
I am a very big fan of Kapil Sharma, the comedian of ' Comedy Circus '.
My desires for acting on television has also strengthened after watching him.
Expectedly very soon I shall also be seen in some TV program.
The talks on that project has not reached its final stage, therefore I cannot declare it now.
Yes, I have no hesitation in saying this that I want to fulfill my wish of working for television.
Many things are special about colors golden petal awards this time.
After a long stretch of time Anil Kapoor and Madhuri Dixit will perform on the superhit song ' My name is lakhan ' of their film ' Ram Lakhan '.
Apart from them many known celebrities including Salman Khan shall also perform.
While Kiran Kher shall hum the lines of her poem.
The set is prepared by Umang Kumar the fame of Black and Sawariya.
The statues of Brazil's hulking mask and royal dragon have been built.
Finally the dome shaped fort of Russia shall also be on the stage.
Drishti Dhami and Manish Paul shall bear the responsibility of anchoring the award ceremony.
On the occasion of popular evergreen singer Mohammad Rafi's birthday a program, ' Ek sham Rafi ke nam ' has been organized.
Then after kids also presented many dances.
The program was inaugurated by lighting candles.
While the listeners holding their heart, supported the singer Prem Bhatia by enjoying the songs when he put the memories of Rafi on stage.
The Bharatnatyam presentation of a school girl gathered quite a lot clapping.
The chief guest of the program Dr. Narendra Nath, the chairman of Yamuna cross development board and legislative Naseeb Singh paid tribute to Muhammad Rafi by offering flowers on his statue.
Many eminent people including the councilor Gurcharan singh Raju, ex councilor Ramesh Pandit, Harish Gola and master Alauddin were present on this occasion.
The biggest theater festival of Asia ' Indian Theater Festival ' will begin from Saturday.
The staging of 87 best plays of the country and abroad will be held in the auditoriums situated at Mandi house area this biennial.
In the theater festival held from 5th till 20th January plays of many languages have been chosen where apart from regional languages' foreign languages' play shall also be staged.
For viewers, with most of the presentations subtitles in English and Hindi shall also be arranged.
The first presentation of the festival will be Vinay Sharma directed play ' Atmakatha ' where Kulbhushan Kharbanda will act on stage after a long time.
Actually since 1850 the regional adaptation of the Zoroastrian theater became very popular in cities and villages, Seeing this, the five topnotch and the successful commercial theater companies of the country have been invited in the theater festival this year.
On the occasion of 100 years of Sadat Hasan Manto's birth anniversary, six plays centered on him shall be staged.
The popular theater artists of the country shall come for the festival to pay tribute to Manto.
Here Danish Hussain and Mahmud Farukhi's' Mantoiyat ' , Kewal Dhaliwal's' Ik si Manto ' , Devendra Raj Thakur's' Khol Do ' , NSD theater company's' Dafa 292 and Pakistan's Sunil shankar, Shahid Nadim and Madiha Gauhar's' Mantarama ' and ' Kaun hai ye gustakh ' plays shall be staged.
Apart from this seven plays based on the plays of Shakespeare, selected from the country and overseas shall be special.
Muhammad Rafi was on the top among such selected people.
His each and every talk , each and every way reflected his proximity towards people's heart.
I had first met Rafi Sahib through the musician Naushaad.
Both of them lived in Bandra locality.
On such an occasion my friend Suresh Nigam came to Mumbai.
Suresh was the film production officer of Uttar Pradesh and during those days he was directing a documentary made on some poetry of Urdu.
The name of the documentary was' shayad ae mere bachhon '.
From the beginning till the end the entire poetry was assimilated in the documentary and its only singer was Muhammad Rafi.
I acquainted Rafi also with this news and he also became anxious by listening to it.
He said in an advisable way that he does not need to go anywhere and should totally take rest.
sometime during noon the bell of my flat rang.
When I peeped through the magic eye, I saw Rafi Sahib there.
I was more surprised to open the door.
I saw a basket in his driver's hands.
Handing that over to my hands he said, I have brought maize's chapati and hot mustard leave's paste for you people.
Surrender it to your belly and then sleep peacefully.
It should be noted that Surjeet was the name of Suresh's wife and she was the daughter of a sardar.
Kannan Aiyar the director of ' Ek thi Dayan ' says that it is a thriller film.
It has the incorporation of magic and horror.
Imran Hashami plays the role of magician Bobo.
He is a big magician of the country.
He goes for a treatment to the psychologist.
The psychologist declares falsifies his thoughts but after some time he starts facing portent incidents.
According to Vishal, this film has been made centering the witch.
It has three potential witches.
People will not be able to recognize the real witch among the three witches.
The lead roles in the film are played by Huma Qureshi, Kalki Kochlin and Konkana sen Sharma.
konkana says that I have seen many horror films but haven't played such a role yet.
To be true, I always wanted to be a part of such films.
While Imran again being associated with horror films says that I have started loving the horror genre.
While there is a gossip that the lead role of ' Ek thi Dayan ' was also put before Ekta Kapoor whom she refused.
Ekta gave the reason that she would love to be a witch behind the screen only.
I am totally a witch in doing work and getting work done.
If a husband is like Ram then the woman should become Sita and on the demand of the situation shall also become Durga in order to protect her children.
In the gathering of young artists decorated with the melodies of traditional instruments the listeners are getting the chance to see best dance presentations along with the tunes.
People merrily enjoyed the musical program organized at the Sri Ram Center.
The tunes of the traditional Indian instrument lute touch the strings of heart also.
Artist Sameer Alwi gathered the moment with such alluring and dulcet tunes.
Young artist Vithika Tikkoo also played melodious tune through the water waves of santoor.
Apart from this the Bharatnatyam dance of young dancer Dakshina Vaidyanathan and Odisi dance of Supriya Nayan entranced the viewers.
On Thursday along with Sitar playing Manipuri and Kathak dance will be presented.
Amongst the films released last week ' Bandook ' didn't do well.
It was expected that Arjun Rampal and Chitrangda Singh starrer and Sudheer Mishra directed ' Inkar ' shall attract people.
Made in the style of ' Dabang ' and ' Singham ' , ' Mumbai Mirror ' emerged as a Mumbaiite film based on a Marathi background.
Sachin Joshi lacked the magic of Salman khan and Ajay Devgan.
Last week was not so profitable in terms box office.
Jacklin fernandis had never been much interested in cars before but her ideology has changed since when she has returned after shooting Abbas Mastan's film Race-2.
Actually many luxury cars are used for doing the chasing scenes in ' Race 2 '.
During this time Jacklin got the chance to know and understand more about cars.
She thinks that now she has adequate knowledge about cars.
She can also talk about cars and give her opinions.
The opening of the grand literary festival of Jaipur Literature festival will be held on Thursday at the Diggi palace.
The opening of the function is significant because the vocative inauguration shall be done by the great author and activist Mahashweta Devi.
The vocation of Mahashweta Devi shall be held in the front lawn of Diggi palace.
With this approximately 280 authors, writers, artists, script writers, social activists and big shots from different fields shall share their experiences, elaborate the subject in 174 sessions for five consecutive days.
Like every time this time also the venue is decorated sinuously.
It reminds of the culture and tradition of the city.
Taslima Nasreen, the Bangladeshi author often surrounded by controversies has not been invited for the 37th international Kolkata book fair organized on Bangladesh's theme.
The famous poet and professor of Bangla at the Dhaka University, Anisujamman is coming to inaugurate the function.
The biggest literary festival of the country will be opened for the common readers from 30th January.
Youth musicians and dancers festival organized by the support of art, culture and language department of Delhi government's council of literary art began on Wednesday.
Chief Minister Sheila Dixit inaugurated the program.
The vice chairperson of the music theater academy was present at the inaugural function.
The Bengali literature developed in the middle of 19th century.
Raja Rammohan Roy, Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar, Michael Madhusudan Dutt, Bankimchandra Chattopadhyay and Rabindra Nath Tagore have played significant role for this.
In the beginning the Bangla authors used Hindi and English instead of Bangla.
Pandit Bankimchandra Chattopadhyay made his entry into Bangla literature.
He educated from Hugli college and Presidency college.
He graduated in 1857 and received the law degree in 1869.
Bankimchandra Chattopadhyay, the composer of Vande Mataram is identified as a Bangla poet,novelist, writer and journalist.
His first published composition was Rajmohan's wife.
It was composed in English.
His first published Bangla creation ' Durgeshnandini ' was published in March,1865.
It is a romantic novel.
He also published a monthly ' Bangdarshan ' in 1872.
' Anandmath ' (1882) is a political novel.
The 1773 religious rebellion of north Bengal has been described in this novel.
This book has the spirit of patriotism.
The last novel of Chatterjee is' Sitaram ' (1886).
It shows the resistance of a Hindu ruler against the Mughal rule.
He also wrote many essays based on religion, society and contemporary issues.
The novels of BankimChandra Chattopadhyay was translated in all the languages in India.
He only has this honor in Bangla literature.
Middle class readers associate themselves with his novels.
The emergence of cultural consciousness of the country in contemporary Hindi poetry took place during the romance period whose subsequent development is seen in the free-will poetry.
It is primarily based on nationalism.
Maithilisharan Gupt is the poet of this genre.
National poet Maithilisharan Gupt (1885-1964) is a significant poet of Hindustani.
It is the biggest contribution of Gupt jee in the history of Hindi poetry.
Saket is the supreme pinnacle of his composition.
He shall always be immortal through his writings and shall be a source of inspiration for the new poets in the coming centuries.
The poetry Sarjana of Maithilisharan Gupt has perpetual significance.
It has the introduction of the country's past, perspective of the present and future vision.
He used to do poetry as Kanaklata.
The school education could not be completed because of paying more attention towards sports.
He studied Hindi, Bangla, Sanskrit literature at the home itself.
Munshi Ajmeri jee guided him.
He started composing poetry in Braj language at the age of 12.
He came into contact with Acharya Mahaveer Prasad Dwiwedi.
His poems began to be published in the monthly Saraswati in Hindi.
First published poetry compilation was' Rang me bhang and then ' Jaydrath Vadh ' got published.
He also translated the poetry volume ' Meghnath vadh ' and ' Brajangana '.
' Bharat Bharati ' steeped with the spirit of nationalism was published in the year 1914 BC.
His popularity spread everywhere.
He started writing the epic ' Saket ' in 1916-17 BC.
The indifference towards Urmila was cleared away through this volume.
Saket and other volumes like Panchwati etc. were completed in 1913.
' Yashodhara ' was written in 1932 BC.
Gandhi Jee gave him the title of ' National Poet '.
Under personal passive resistance he was sent to jail.
He was honored with D.lit from Agra University.
He was nominated as a member of Rajya Sabha from 1952-1964.
Indian government honored him with the ' Padma Vibhushan ' award.
The then president Dr. Rajesndra Prasad gifted him the volume ' Abhinandan ' in 1962 and was honored with D.lit by the Hindu University.
The death of Anuj Siyaramsharan Gupt in 1963 BC gave an irreparable shock.
He got a heart attack on 12th December, 1964 and it was the set off of the shining star of literature.
He wrote two epics, 19 short narrative poetry, poetry songs, plays etc. at the age of 78 years.
His poetry reflects national consciousness, religious feelings and human elevation.
The three sections of ' Bharat Bharati ' portray the past , present and future of the country.
He was an exceptional poet of the humanist, moral and cultural poetry stream.
According to Dr. Nagendra he was a national poet,a true national poet.
Pratap Press was the central meeting point of the national poet Maithilisharan Gupt and the daring journalist Ganeshankar Vidyarthi who circulated the newspaper named Pratap from Kanpur.
Both the authors were trying to bring independence for the country through the Pen power.
Both the great men were sympathetic with great hearts.
They had generous heart.
He also had familiar relationships with other contemporary poet Sachidanand Hiranand Vatsyayan Agyeya.
Agyeya called him Dadda with respect.
He poured the feeling of patriotism in the entire country in the field of poetry through his writings.
Maithilisharan Gupt was born to Seth Ramcharan das Jee Gupt on 3rd August 1886 in the jhansi block of Chirgaanv village.
Mahatma Gandhi provided him the honor of being called as a national poet.
Looking at his services, the Indian government provided him the membership of Rajya Sabha twice.
Being born in Bundelkhand, Gupt jee only used Bundelkhandi language while speaking.
He passed away in Chirgaanv on 12th December, 1964.
He prospered Hindi with his literary customs.
Maithilisharan Gupt's life was totally filled with the feeling of nationalism.
This is so because all his compositions are steeped with national ideology.
He was the keen disciple of Indian culture and history.
But he never believed on superstitions and hollow ideals.
He desired for the modern picture of the Indian culture.
The poetry of Maithilisharan Gupt is the literature of the understanding of human life.
At the center of his compositions Gupt jee considered joint family to be the bast.
The family of Dashrath in ' Saket ' is the best example of this.
Alongside he has expressed his abysmal sympathy towards neglected and victimized women.
Gupt jee favors an exploitation free society.
He likes that Ram Rajya where a King easily renounces all his luxuries for the welfare of its subjects.
He made Hindustani so simple that it had the assimilation of a sweet language like Braj.
Apart from being a poet Maithilisharan Gupt was also as dramatist.
' Chandrahas' is a play that visually displays the history.
It transmits the significance of destiny and Karma.
' Tilottama ' is a legendary play.
It has uprooted the distinctions like high and low, touchable and untouchable and honored the values like service and humanity.
Their is stress on modernity in the play but not merely for the neo thing.
The influence of righteous Gandhism values of freedom struggle is everywhere on Maithilisharan Gupt.
Public service or human service is also the subject of Saket and Yashodhara.
Those values are presented with a feel of Buddhism in this play.
In the compositions of Gupt jee, domesticity and family life are the basis of human values.
How should a king be and what is his religion?
In a way ' Anagh ' is a play against multilevel corruption, injustice and resistance.
He had been considering the conscience of Gandhi jee as the values and that value and voice is more in infinite.
The endeavor of Vishambharnath towards national education for the preparation of agitation is the evidence of the first role of Gupt jee's political resourcefulness.
The basic nature of the play and the ease of language have been taken care of while translating.
The revolt against atrocities and injustice and the attempts of changing human behavior also have been the subjects of his other compositions.
Maithilisharan Gupt is the poet of the forte factor behind a woman's life and her honor.
Woman is inspired by the family values in his plays.
Generally in all the plays the female characters not only identifies the truth but also express themselves in an honest way.
The popular painter Amrita Shergil was born in Budapest, the capital of Hungary in 1913.
Her father Umraav Singh was an Indian and her mother was a Hungarian woman.
Her name is included amongst the leading artists of the modern revolution in the Indian arts.
She became a mature painter at a very young age, her distinguished talent was recognized and she got the encouragement for her work from her Indian uncle Erwin Bakhte.
She got her training in 1924 in Paris from Lucien Simon and pear Vayam.
She took admission in Ecol the bow arts of Paris at the age of 16.
In 1934 Amrita Shergill was selected as an associate in grand cello for her work Conversation.
She was the first Asian and the youngest women on this post but after being motivated that her work as a painter will be completed in India, she came back to India after leaving behind the beginning of opportunities and success of Paris.
She considered Bangla style to be a regressive one and declared it to be responsible for the stagnancy which became the character of Indian Paintings.
Amrita Shergil was skilled at using colors.
The colors she used were self willed and violent; and against the then prevalent light colors.
She traveled south India in 1937 and this journey gave a format to her future works.
Her works of this period include three pictures series of south India also are- Brahmachari , south Indian villagers going to market and bride's toilet.
During that time the Indian painting was completely different from the prevalent realistic water color methods.
Along with the shapes these pictures showed her experiments and aligning the powerful influence of Ajanta and Elora cave pictures were her first attempts.
Amrita Shergill who has always been engaged in experimentation turned towards the small mughal paintings of the 17th century here and she included her Ajanta oil paintings developed in formal style in its fusion and colors.
She died at the age of just 28 years in 1941 because of a mysterious disease.
Her last and incomplete work shows the use of more dark colors than before and her inclination towards the abstract.
The great novelist and story writer of the Hindi literature Munshi Premchand was on 31st July, 1880 in the Lamhi village of Benaras.
His father's name was Ajayab lala and his mother's name was Anandi Devi.
His father was a clerk at the Post office.
He had six acres of land at the village.
He received his primary education in Urdu and Persian from a priest in Lamhi itself.
He passed his matriculation from Benaras.
After the demise of his father Premchand's days were spent in adversities.
He held the post of a teacher and school inspector at places like Allahabad, Pratapgarh, Kanpur, Gorakhpur etc.
He completed his B.A in this series.
' Behind every successful man there is a woman ' this saying also proves to be true for Prem Chand.
By the way Prem chand's first marriage was unsuccessful.
But his second wife Shivrani Devi gave him the freedom to write despite many kinds of scarcities.
Many of his stories were published with the name Nawab Rai.
The first story with the name Prem chand was' Bade ghar ki Beti '.
The credit of making Premchand a great author of Hindi goes to Mannan Dwiwedi and Mahaveer Prasad Poddar.
Almost 250 stories of Premchand have been compiled with the title Mansarovar.
Like his novels, this volume is also constituted in its usual nature and style and the comprehensive dimensions of north Indian life has been made its theme.
Generally these stories pints towards some morality or they reveal some psychological truth.
Godan is considered to be Premchand's most significant composition.
His popular stories include Namak ka daroga, Poos ki raat, kafan etc.
Premchand worked as a teacher until he got involved in Gandhi jee's Non co-operation movement in 1921.
He also did the writing work for ' Madhuri ' and ' Chand ' magazines.
He launched the magazine ' Hans' on March, 1930 but always struggled from economic crisis.
He went to Mumbai because of economic problems and to write dialogue but he could not even spend a single year there.
As an author he first became reputed for the novels and stories written in Urdu.
' Rang Bhumi ' made him the novel-emperor.
This great author died on 8th October, 1936.
The revolutionary poet of the modern Hindi Suryakant Tripathi ' Nirala ' was born in 21st February, 1899 in Mahishadal, Bengal.
Nirala remained present as one such poor but happy revolutionary who always accepted challenges.
The poet who wrote vigorous classics like the Shakti Puja of Rama, started prosody-free poetries breaking the norm of prosodies.
By 1930 the central characters like Chaturi Chamaar started appearing in his prose.
So many incidents took place in Nirala's life.
His paternal village was at the center place of struggling farmers culture.
His childhood was spent in Bengal where Indian social and cultural renaissance revolution was at its peak.
The entire writing of Nirala jee favors social and cultural revival which gives a new dimension to romanticism.
Whether it was poetry, stories , novels or essays Nirala seems to probe the truth of his era.
Nirala jee has composed many works.
Nirala jee has also written many novels and essays.
Nirala jee also edited ' Matwala ' and ' Samanvay ' for some time.
Nirala jee took his last breath on 15th October, 1961 in Prayag.
R.K. Narayan the famous Indian author of English language was born on 10th October, 1906 in Chennai.
His full name was Rasipuram Krishnaswamy Narayanswamy.
Before becoming a writer R.K. Narayan also worked as a teacher.
His first novel Swamy and friends(1935) has a description of the exciting acts of a group of boys in different contexts.
The background of Narayan's all the books after this was a fictitious city of south India, Malgudi.
Narayan generally depicts human relationships, attributes and the ironies of daily Indian life where the modern city life collides with the old traditions.
His style is sober which has the blend of cultured comic, elegance and simplicity.
The theme of his two sectioned autobiography is' My days: Amemwa and my dateless diary: An American journey.
The Indian government honored him with ' Padmabhushan ' in 1964 and ' Padmavishan ' in 2000.
He received the ' Sahitya Academy ' prize in 1958 for his work ' The guide '.
Narayan was honored with A.C. Benson award by the ' Royal society of literature ' in 1980.
Devakinandan Khatri is an author who came after the era of Bharatendu in Hindi literature.
Novels are primarily included in the literature written by him.
Where instead of a realistic storyline a fictitious storyline was built.
' Bhutnath ' was completed by his son Durga Prasad Khatri.
The novel Chandrakanta has a big contribution in the propagation of Hindi language.
The novel won everybody's heart.
Many non Hindi speakers learnt Hindi language for testing the delight of this book.
Devakinandan Khatri jee was born on 29th June 1861 ( Ashadh Krishnapaksha saptami samwat 1918) Saturday in Pusa, Muzzafarpur, Bihar.
The primary education of Devakinandan Khatri jee was carried in Urdu & Persian.
Later he also studied Hindi, Sanskrit and English.
He later established a printing press in Varanasi and initiated a Hindi monthly ' Sudarshan ' in 1883.
The magical fictional literature of Devakinandan khatri jee has another story.
Since childhood Devakinandan Khatri jee was fond of travelling.
In the past when the contracts of the forests were taken away from him he composed the novel Chandrakanta mixing his imagination of the works of magicians and detectives keeping the same ruins of the forests, hills and ancient historical buildings as the background.
In the contemporary phase his role in the propagation of Hindi through literature has been remarkable.
Most of the Hindu people during those days knew Hindi when Babu Devakinandan Khatri jee started writing novels.
In such a situation the major aim of Khatri jee was to compose a work through which Hindi could be propagated.
Chandrakanta novel became so popular that those who did not know to read and write in Hindi or only knew Urdu learnt Hindi to just read this novel.
Keeping its popularity in mind extending this story he wrote another novel ' Chandrakanta Santati ' which was multiply interesting than ' Chandrakanta '.
Chandrakanta(1888-1892)- Lakhs of people learnt Hindi to read the novel Chandrakanta.
The novel is parted in four sections.
Chandrakanta Santati(1894-1904)- Inspired by the unprecedented success of Chandrakanta, Devkinandan Khatri jee composed Chandrakanta Santati, a large novel comprising of 24 sections.
This novel also became greatly popular.
Bhutnath(1907-1913)- (Uncompleted) Devakinandan jee composed this novel by giving one of the characters of Chandrakanta Santati the role of Protagonist.
But because of untimely death he could only write 6 sections of the novel after which the rest of the 15 sections were completed by his son Durgaprasad Khatri.
The popular educationist patriot, the originator of tradition and culture and the founder of Benaras Hindu University abbe Pandit Madan Mohan Malviya was a great man of this generation.
It is noteworthy that abbe Malviya had an unparalleled position in the country in terms of truth , Brahamcharya, exercise, patriotism and self denial.
Abbe always remained soft spoken in his behavior.
Work was his life.
Apart from a lifetime alignment with Benaras Hindu University he remained engaged in public service by working in many organizations.
As a sharp journalist, Madan Mohan Malviya aroused his invisible pen ideologies and gave the message of motherland service and societal creation.
Abbe Malviya jee had participated in the second conference of the Indian national congress organized in 1886 in Kolkata during his teaching period.
Inspired by the eloquence of abbe Malviya jee, Dadabhai Narojee in his presidential illumination said that his voice has the voice of mother India.
The second sojourn of abbe's journalistic life was the institution and editing of Abhudaya.
Abbe Malviya jee also fought for independence through this paper.
Abbe Malviya jee edited it for about two years.
After this the publishing of an English paper named ' Leader ' began from Allahabad.
Abbe Malviya jee wanted to send the message of independence to the non Hindi speaking regions through this paper.
With the inspiration of Malviya jee in 1929 its Hindi version ' Bharat ' was also started being published.
An year after the publication of ' Leader ' , with the efforts of Malviya jee a paper named ' Maryada ' was also started being published.
Many essays written on political problems by Malviya were published in this paper.
Abbe Malviya jee started a weekly paper named ' Sanatan Dharma ' from Benaras on 20th July 1933 which was inspired by the then situation of the country.
Abbe Malviya jee also gave his significant contribution in the circulation of many papers and magazines.
If you are in Nagaland or particularly in Kohima in the month of November.
Kisama village is located at a distance of just 12 kilometers from Kohima.
As you reach here you reach into horn bill festival i.e Dhanesh festival.
Dhanesh festival was started by the Nagaland government in the first year of the new millennium.
Since then every year it is being organized in the first week of December.
The festival celebrated for a week ties every Nagaland inhabitants in a single thread and it turns into a fair where people from every corner of the state and the people from neighbour states assemble and participate in colorful presentations.
Here we get to see the amazing blend of crafts, games, food fair, traditional games and rituals.
Traditional arts such as hand made paintings, wooden crafts and architectures are exhibited in the fair.
Here a special proclivity of people is seen towards many amazing games like climbing the oily bamboos and ' Naga Raja ' chilly eating competition.
Here the medicine shops of indigenous herbs remain overcrowded.
If you are interested in historical places after enjoying the traditional tribal culture of various tribes and species, you can visit the Kohima war memorial.
The war memorial was built in the memory of the martyrs of the second world war.
The dhanesh festival propagated at a bigger level is a little different from the traditional festivals and rituals of Nagaland.
During Dhanesh festival it is taken care of that here only those rituals are included which can also be enjoyed by the people from outside.
This festival signifies happiness and pride.
Every year a village represents a tribal community.
Nagaland is said to be the ' land of festivals '.
The 16 big tribes and the sub tribes of the state have their own method of abiding the exclusive cultural tradition which they express by art exhibitions during Naga festivals.
80 percent of the state's population is directly associated with agricultural work.
The peculiarity of the Naga festivals is that they can be identified with Christianity values.
Despite this its locality, traditions and feel cannot be compared with anything.
The Aoleng Monyu festival of the konyak tribe of the Mou district is celebrated after sowing crops.
Aolenge Lee- This festival is celebrated in the month of March-April for six days.
In this Yangwa and Kahshih gods are prayed for good health , security , good yield and growth of generation.
Earlier this festival also used to be a medium of fixing engagements and marriages.
Bushu is a eight day festival which is celebrated by the kachari tribes of the Dimapur district in the last week of January.
For the kacharis, Bushu is a music of the soul.
On this day kacharis eat a lot, dance and marry.
Meanwhile the tradition of respecting elders is also obeyed.
Jemen Liyangmai tribe known as Jeliyang of the Paren district celebrates a festival named Melingi Nachegankhia every year in the month of March and October after sowing crops.
The festival begins after chanting mantras and lighting fire by the priest of the village which symbolizes the security of women and children against enemies and wild animals.
The festival also provides a chance for a gathering of the family members at a place.
During this time the exchange of gifts, organization of community feast, round of drinking and letting drink and cultural activities takes place.
The Yimchungru tribe of Tyunsang and Kifire district celebrates Metum Niyo festival.
The festival related to crops continues for five days beginning from 8th August.
The local belief is that the Arimpu god who drinks the fermented drink wants that the people associated with crops should take a five day leave from work.
After the announcement of the festival by the priest a sacrifice of a healthy animal is made.
The Kuki tribe celebrates Mimkut festival in the month of January to please demons.
The festival begins with the sacrifice of two white cocks.
The Ao tribe of Mokokchung district celebrates Moatsu festival after sowing crops in the month of May.
The game ' Tug of war ' is organized which exhibits the weeding of paddy crops.
The actual meaning of Moatsu is the betterment of crops in the days to come.
These youngsters roam around the village while dancing so that the bad omen runs away.
The Sangtam tribe of the Tyuyensang-kifire celebrate agriculture festival Mongmong for six days in the month of September every year.
Digit six is considered to be lucky amongst the Sangtam tribe.
Children are also named after six days of birth.
Monyu is the festival after sowing which is celebrated every year by the Fom tribe of longlong district for six days before a crisis.
The literal meaning of Monyu is affection and respect towards women and this festival is an opportunity of exhibiting affection and respect towards the married girls and sisters by the male members of the family.
Every year the Chang tribe of the Tyuyensang district celebrates Nakyulum the festival of the freedom from darkness.
The Pochuri tribe of phake district celebrates Najhu the festival of sowing for ten days in the month of February every year.
Najhu is a festival of spiritual relationship between the dead people and their unseen protectors.
During the Najhu festival apart from other rituals pairs are also chosen by the unmarried people.
The rengma tribe of Kohima district celebrates Nagda festival every year in the month of November after the harvesting of crops.
The rengma people believe that nagda is the mother power of all the festivals.
The mother of every family tastes the new grain after harvesting and the festival begins after this.
The Angami tribe of Kohima district celebrates Sekrenyi fetival for ten days after harvesting.
Officially the beginning day of this festival is 15th February.
According to the Angami philosophy human body is the blend of Umo(physical) and Yufo(nonphysycal).
The festival begins with the bath of male members of the community at a sacred well.
The Lotha tribe of the Vokha district celebrates nine days Tokhu Imong festival in the first week of November.
As compared to other festivals Tokhu Imong is the festival of rest and during this time the villagers do not hunt, catch fishes, do not trade and travel.
The Khiyamniyugam tribe of tyuensang district celebrates sokum for eight days.
During sokum the announcement of the manufacturing of new Jhoom farm is made.
The Sumi tribe of Junheboto believes that Tuluni festival is an opportunity to honor its warriors and exhibit blaze.
During festivals also the physical and mental capacities of youngsters are tested.
Even for marriage relations women exhibit their health power.
There is an archaic tradition of festivals in Nagaland so that they are able to recover themselves in adverse conditions.
So much so that the color of festivals did not become faint in the journey from early society to the mainstreams of religious beliefs.
It is surprising that most of the people here abide Christianity and follow western culture.
Festivals play the role of supplying happiness and energy in the everyday life of Naga people.
If it had not happened, the life of people in this remote area would not have been so easy.
Hey you have topped the intermediate examinations.
Alright tell me where is your father?
Brother Karan, What happened to you?
You are beaten today also?
Rahim chacha, You will be definitely be beaten if are late for the class.
Hey Suman, Don't think yourself to become a big shot.
Really, There is a wonderful bonding between the daughter and the father.
Rahim Sahib, I am alive because of her support, otherwise this jumping and running is not possible at this age.
Stay happy like this.God bless you.
Brother Karan, You have got a job in Dubai.
Here is your passport and rest of the important documents.
Brother Karan, What have you thought about Suman?
I am planning you leave Suman at my friend Kishan's house in the city.
You are worried a lot about me that is why you are leaving me here.
I remain worried about you dear.
I need to earn money, decorate the house and see you off.
I do not know anybody there in the city.
Alright, you are worried about this.
Hey Kishan, Listen to what she is saying.
Hey crazy girl.Kishan and Bhabhi shall love you very much.
Such is my bonding with that family, It has been many years I have met Kishan.
Sometimes I feel like hugging him.
Truly speaking daughter, sometimes I get worried about you and sometimes about him, Towards his friendship of which I am clueless, When did it happen, why did i happen?
I never used to study but he always remained tangled in books.
He dreamt of going to the city, of getting promoted, being rich but the pocket remained empty.
He became shy while asking me for money, Idiot.
He laughed and it made me happy.
Once he sold his books and came to me to return the money, I pulled my hand and slapped him tightly.
He mistook my friendship as an obligation.
I got relief only after bringing back his books.
I remember the day when she got married, she stepped into a new world.
I have got such a cute Bhabhi, she kept smiling all the time.
But I knew that she was upset for years.
His fortune became bright with son, Kishan got the chance to go to the city.
He started his business there, became a rich man and those people came once again when your mother passed away.
Your Bhabhi(sister in law) took care of you for a week like a mother.
While sitting at the train Bhabhi(sister in law)hugged you and also cried a lot.
He wrote letters for few years and then started getting busy in work.
Hey Suman, What happened?
Nothing dear, We shall go to the city tomorrow.
Hey, very nice Bhabhi(sister in law), You have very beautifully decorated the house.
My Suman has become very beautiful, very cute!
Bhabhi(Sister in law), I am getting a very nice smell.
I know that you are getting a very good flavor of pigeon pea, seasoned with cumin and asafoetida.
Sit, I shall bring the food in a while.
Bhabhi( Sister in law), Is Kishan there at home?
You didn't tell me where he is?
His meeting is going on now.
Bhabhi(Sister in law), Kishan's hair have started becoming grey.
I have committed a big sin today.
Don't lie with Aunty.
But she will not feel bad, I know her since childhood.
Rarely an orphan receives such an affection from anybody.
It has been very late, Uncle jee has yet not come.
Hey he is very busy these days, He is building up a big cabin for his son in the office.
He says he shall give it as a gift.
He loves Prem Sahib a lot.
Yes, Just don't ask the way he loves.
He never meets him like a father, he only meets him like a sportsperson, will shake hands, will play fist fight and then fondly race with him.
I had gone to get book for Prem.
Its a bad day today, I ' ll go mad.
Being upset and crying alone like this is injurious to health.
Hey wow!He said it once and you wiped the tears.
So what, When you have made the friendship you ' ll also have to obey it.
How is the leg's pain now?
Hey You, Please Come.
It is just a little sprain, Sit, it will be fine.
Suman, I am sorry.
There is a principle of friendship mister, No sorry, No thank You, Alright?
Listen, Keep this medicine there.
Suman, Shall I put the ointment?
I shall keep my eyes closed,Promise.
What does he think of himself, He does not have the manners to talk.
Did you feel bad?
Yes, of course.
And don't ask " why " this time.
Go and bring food for me.
I am very hungry.
Hey Prem, What happened?
Did I do anything wrong by touching it?
You also want the same thing what I want.
Aunty jee, Uncle Jee hasn't come?
They directly went to the factory.
Hey Prem why did you come so early dear?
Mother, Friend's friendship has pulled me here.
Friend's Friendship, What do you mean?
Mother in law, I had called, that is why he has come.
Let me touch your feet mother!
Why, What happened to you?
Actually my stomach is not well for the last two days mother in law.
We are talikng about the popular Sarod player, Ustad Amjad Ali khan who has written a book named ' My father,over fraternity ' on his father sarod emperor Ustad Hafiz Ali khan.
The book has been issued in the second fortnight of December and its issuing time is also significant because 2012 was the 40th death anniversary of Ustad Hafiz Ali khan.
Ustad Amjad Ali khan says, " It is special in one more way because there was no authentic literature on Abba until now ".
Ustad Amjad ali Khan considers that there is significant contribution of his Sarod player sons Aman Ali khan and Ayan Ali khan in the writing of this book.
Ustad amjad ali khan is a musician of the sixth generation of the Bangash musicians.
His ancestors are known as the founders of Sarod.
His father Ustad Hafiz Ali khan innovated a new style of playing sarod by the nails of the fingers of his left hand.
Ustad Hafiz ali khan's early life and his musical personality has been illuminated in My father , over fraternity.
Ustad Amjad Ali khan honored with Padmashree in 1975, Padmabhushan in 1991 and Padmavibhushan in 2001 says that, this book contains many interesting and memorable talks of Abba.
As he was honored with Padmabhushan by the first President Dr. Rajendra Prasad in 1960 and when the honorable President asked Abba whether he can do anything for him, Abba presented a unique thing.
Raag Darbari has been composed by Tansen which was altered by people as per their wishes.
It speaks about his dedication towards music.
Ustad amjad ali khan says, " Abba had taught me that music is not a profession.
It is a way of living.
Classical music requires patience, perseverance and meditation and we try to practice them in our lives.
A person who knows the values of a family, understands love and trust can only understand the true meaning of this book.
This was the reason why Ustad Amjad Ali khan chose Amitabh Bachchan for the release of this book.
He says,Bachchan Jee took care of his parents during their last days.
It reflects his versatile personality.
A sight of how exciting is the sight of a tiger roaming in a forest scenario could be seen in the ' Wild life ' painting exhibition organized at the Azad Bhawan.
Artist Geeta Bhatacharya has very beautifully drawn this scene of nature at the canvas.
The lively pictures of tiger in the exhibition were quite appreciated by the viewers.
Painters also like the wild animal known as the pride of zoo and that is why Geeta Bhatacharya depicting the wild life world has shown the tiger cubs playing.
The bright colors not only made these pictures beautiful but also showed the activities of the wild animals through this.
Many views of the nature amongst more than two dozen paintings have been put onto canvas.
The art lovers in this painting exhibition will get to see the attractive pictures of the wild life till 5th January.
Comedy is a serious business.
It is an age old saying but its hidden meaning was well understood on TV in the year 2012.
The new channel life OK assertively launched the stand up comedy show ' laugh India laugh ' with young contestants.
For this help was taken from the Pankaj Saraswat, the director of ' The great Indian laughter challenge ', But it is said that everything changes with time.
While the show ' Comedy Circus' telecast at Sony has strengthened its roots all the more.
Based on the grounds of Life ok star plus launched ' The great Indian comedy show ' with actors like Arshad Warsi and Shreyas Talpade but after the initial phase of TRP the show did not get a good response.
Sab TV that presents light entertaining programs has been successful in makes a space in people's heart through few comedy serials.
Musaddi lal, Karamchand Jasoos, Kalloomal Koylewala, Albert Pintoo, Mohandas B.A.LLB, Thekedar Tarneja.
These roles of Pankaj kapoor dominated his real name so much so that not only his admirers but his friends who had studied with him also entangled in these names that did not know they should call their buddy with which name.
He has full faith that the Mandola character of Pankaj Kapoor will increase the entanglement of his friends about his name.
Actually the title of the film is based on three characters.
Here Pankaj Kapoor as Mandola has played the role of Anushka ' s(Bijli) father.
According to Jagad Goyal the businessman of Tagore nagar who studied with him from class 9th till 11th During 1968-70 in Kundan Vidya Mandir situated in Civil lines, he used to call him as Pankaj in school but on screen he played his characters so beautifully that his many names became popular.
kwenzene vailis studying in the nursery school of America is just 9 years old.
This time Vailis has been nominated for the best actress in Oscar awards.
Vailis has been nominated for the lead role in ' beast of the southern wild.
It is the first film of vailis.
TV actress Urvashi Dholakiya has become the winner of reality show Big Boss of season-2.
Salman Khan the host of the show announced about Urvashi's victory on Saturday night.
The victory has fetched Urvashi a prixe amount of 50 lakh rupees.
Urvashi is the third woman candidate to win this show.
The social and political issues of the country are shaking the sensitive film makers.
The little knowledge about the left politics by the script writers and directors have made Maoists less significant.
A section of the viewers can laugh upon this but the film eventually is insensitive towards issues, movements and masses.
The landlord Mandola possessing the similar name as the village remains ruthless, exploiter and feudal during the day.
He has decided to turn the farms of his village into mills and industries by aligning with the state chief minister.
The farmers fight for saving their lands where according to Maoist Tung he is being directed.
The satire will make the viewers laugh while the agitation of the Maoists is an aspect of the ruthless truth of the country.
Actually most of our film makers try to cast a local story taking the artifact of the overseas film makers.
Not putting the local saying into the right scenario of historical, social and political context leads to the scrambling of truth, imagination and thinking.
This scrambling is somewhat more in ' Matru ki bijli ka mandola '.
Pankaj kapoor and Shabana Azmi are proved actors.
Ordinary scenes are made extra ordinary by them.
Imran khan and Anushka sharma do not seem very effective amongst them.
The songs and music of Vishal Bharadwaj's movies are very vigorous, sweet and melodious.
The satirical dialogues and loud scenes of the film are seductive.
If this sustainability was there throughout the movie the definitely the entertainment would have been more.
Ranbeer kapoor who has become the youth icon is also active on small screen along with the big screen.
The viewers shall see his dance performance on TV on 19th January.
His film ' Barfi ' has been nominated for the 17 various categories of this award.
Ranbeer will also perform with mother Neetu Kapoor for the first time.
Ranbeer says that, ' I want to perform with all the members of my family alternately on this occasion.
Ranbeer further says that the award ceremony this time in many terms is special for the film society and film lovers.
Hindi cinema is celebrating its 100 years.
This ceremony is dedicated to that.
I will dedicate my performance to late grandfather Rajkapoor, Shammi kapoor and shashi kapoor.
The awards cultivate a feeling of self confidence inside me that whatever I am doing is correct.
I am very happy that once again after ' Rockstar ' my film has received a lot many awards.
' Life of Pi ' made in Indian background with Indian characters like Irfan, Tabboo and Suraj Sharma has been nominated in 11 categories of the 85th Oscar awards.
The lullaby of Pi in the film has got a place in the category of best original songs of Oscars.
This lullaby is written by the Indian musician Bombay Jayshree Ramnath.
Everybody in India is hoping from him this year.
It is remarkable that Gulzar(song) and Rahman(music) had won the Oscar award for the best original song in 2008 for ' Jai ho '.
Michael Dana has given the music for this lullaby and it has also been nominated for the best original score.
Oscar awards are given by the Academy of motion pictures and sciences of America every year.
This year these awards shall be distributed on 24th February.
Pi is such a character who lives in my neighborhood and also in your locality.
Pi is a symbol who makes his own way, searches for his shore himself.
All of us struggle in the passion of living life.
After watching ' Life of Pi ' on screen, any viewer can call it to be a magical film.
But I think that this film lets us meet the witching of life.
Such a witching which not only associates with the ups and downs of Pi's life but leads every person to a turning point from where he cannot find a way to head forward.
It is a big thing for me to be associated with this film but playing the the role of an adult pi was no less than a challenge.
