The bunches of the legumes are cut from the plants those plants are cut and removed from the surface of the land because then on those plants flowers do not grow.
The production of black cardamom, depends on the variety and the cultivation method.
In Meghalaya, the maximum production of the Dwarf Bush has been found 1300 kilos per hectare.
In Sikkim , the production of the Pink Golsi has been achieved about 1375 kilos per hectare , whereas the production of the Ramsi 1053 kilo and the production of the Bizongu Golsi has been achieved 1355 kilos.
At first bunches of the legumes are plucked from the stipe.
The furnace is created with the help of the bricks and mud.
Over the furnace platform of the green bamboo stick is made.
After burning the furnace day and night continuously, by drying up in three days black cardamom gets ready.
After drying up 100 kilos raw green legumes 25 kilos black cardamom gets ready.
In the black cardamom leaf streak disease harms more to the leaves, to prevent it spray of the 0.25 percent liquid of the Blaitox-50 has been beneficial.
Among the viral diseases Phurki and Chirki is more important, to prevent those cultivate Golsi and Ramsi varieties.
In Sikkim and Darjeeling, children eat fondly the ripen fruits of the black cardamom.
It is used to cook delicacy of vegetables and muttons etc. mostly.
Beside that black cardamom is used in the chutney, pickles, biscuit and to make the mixture of the spices of the different types.
Eating daily two or four black cardamom seed gums become strong and it doesn't pain in the teeth.
Black cardamom makes liver healthy.
From the consumption of the black cardamom, the diseases of the neck, lungs and heart do not occur and irritation of the eyes ends.
Cardamom is called the queen of the spices.
India is the biggest producing and exporting country which produces seventy percent of the total yielding and the sixty percent part of the world business.
In India the total yielding of the cardamom is 2300 tons to 2800 tons per year.
The dried legumes of the cardamom is used in the form of the spice and medicine, in its seeds there is 2-4 percent highly aromatic vaporized oil which fragrance is very pleasant and have cool impact.
The plant of the cardamom is herbaceous, multi year and its seed is of single-seeded.
Its plant looks like a turmeric plant, just a little bud has come out in that.
In the plant of the cardamom there is an underground rhizome, which is called a bulb.
Generally, the plants of the cardamom grow at the height of the six hundred to fifteen hundred meters, where average rainfall remains 150 cm and temperature 10-35 centigrade.
The plant of the cardamom has the need of the shadow, that's why in the garden it can be cultivated successfully.
The situation of the excess water and dryness is harmful for the cardamom hence it needs consistent cold and moist climate.
To grow the plant of the cardamom the fertile soil of the forests is proper which has water drainage, in which fossils is available in good quantity and which has PH 5 to 6.
Few other varieties of the cardamom are also cultivated in the India's different area on small level like Keniyelum, Mujerabad, Bijapur and Nadan etc.
In the plain area to farm it the fast growing plants are cultivated like Casia and Harithrina etc which give shadow.
The cardamom is cultivated by both, sapling and seed.
The plants which are grown by seeds are assumed to be good, in which there is less threat of the viral diseases.
The seeds are covered by the light loose soil and after sowing, the nursery is covered by the straw and light irrigation is done in the morning and evening.
After germination straw is taken out and to save from the sun shadow is arranged.
When plants become of 5-6 leaves, then it should be displaced in the prepared farm.
Generally there is the need of the one kilogram seed for a hectare land.
The plant of the cardamom should be given dung compost, fertilizer of khalli, powder of bones, powder of fish etc. due to that plant could get enough quantity of fossils and humus.
This quantity should be given after 30 days of the sowing of the plants in three times in the duration of 45 days.
In karnatka where 5000 plants per hectare is planted through canal method, there 120.12 and 240 kilo nitrogen and potash is given per hectare.
Taking three months old plant from the early nursery is planted in the other nursery and it is kept very carefully, for one or two years.
After the preparation of the main land plants are transplanted at the distance of the 2m×1m.
There is the need of the weed-removing for the plants of the cardamom four times in the first year, three times in the second year and in the third year two times.
Despite that, it is necessary to put the soil time to time, to give fertilizer and trimming of the long length plants.
In the farming of the cardamom there is no such danger of the insects.
To control the thrips and legumes secant insect spray the mixture of 0.075 percent of the phenithiyan medicine.
To prevent it after taking the affected part out calcium carbonate should be put there.
From the third year of the transplantation fruit starts to come out in the cardamom.
It takes four months to be fruit from flower, which gets ready after ripening with in 30-40 days.
All the legumes of the cardamom does not ripen all together.
By plucking the legumes which are completely ripen, they split while drying and there is the loss of the quality, thus it is better to pluck the legumes before ripening.
In the farm of the one hectare the average production of the cardamom is 100 to 150 kilos.
The plucked legumes are dried up in the sun or with the help of the artificial drying machine.
Dry green fruits are sold in the market at the high price and it has huge demand in abroad also.
Cardamom is cultivated as a mixed crop under the trees of the Robasta coffee, coconut and nut , in that the work opportunity for the labor and pure income increases.
The Indian people had first used cassia in the form of the spice.
Dalchini is called in English cinnamon and in the botanical language it is called cinnamonam verum.
The native place of the cinnamon is the Shri Lanka and India's hilly area of the Malabar.
In India, the cultivation of the cinnamon is being done almost from 200 years.
Indian cinnamon is the form of the inner bark of the plant named cinnamomam verum.
The bark of the cinnamon is slightly acidic and when it is separated from the stem then its fragrance increases.
In comparison of the Amaltas the bark of the cinnamon is thin, leaves are small and has deep fragrance.
Every year India imports 2.5 tons cinnamon.
The plant of the cinnamon is more harder.
In the laterite and sandy soil of the western ghat in which the lack of the food elements of the plant is found, the better yielding of the cinnamon is found.
Cinnamon could be grown successfully in the places of 1000 meter height from the sea surface.
It is cultivated as the dryland crop hence the places where rain falls to 200-250 cm, are more suitable.
Generally cinnamon is grown by the seeds but it could be grown by stem and root also.
When fruits fall after ripening then the seeds are taken out after collecting them and they should be immediately shown in the nursery bed or in the polythene bags after cleaning the flesh over them.
Nursery or bags should be irrigated regularly.
Keep these plants to shady places till it did not become of the 6 months.
In the land cinnamon is supposed to sow clean by removing out weeds from that.
The proper showing time of the cinnamon plants June-July because the plants shown in this period get the rain water for three months after sowing.
Where, there is the enough facility of the irrigation, there cinnamon could be shown till October-November also.
For the fast growth of the plants it is necessary to plant the shady trees, for this two steamed tree should be selected.
There is no tradition to put fertilizer in the crop of the cinnamon.
For the better yielding of the cinnamon it is necessary to have a nitrogen based fertilizer.
After removing the weeds in July, putting in the soil mix properly 50 kilograms compost and 250 grams urea per tree.
When tree of the cinnamon becomes 2-3 years, then it is cut from above 20 cm of the land surface thus more branches will emerge.
After it starts raining, the branches of the cinnamon should be cut.
Before trimming it should be seen by cutting a thin branch and removing its bark that bark is removed easily or not.
The branch which is two years old and 1-1.25 meter long and 1.25 cm thick, is assumed better to get the best cinnamon.
Thus the length of the bark may be kept to 10-125 cm according to the comfort it is called Quilis it means the premium quality of the cinnamon.
The cinnamon which is made by drying inner part of the bark is called Fetherings.
From the very hard branch bark is taken out the cinnamon which is prepared by drying them is called scrap.
Grinding the mixture of the different grade the powder of the cinnamon is prepared.
At first the removed bark from the cut branches is kept for 24 hours for fermentation.
After that it is dried up in sun for 4-5 days while drying bark takes the form of the quill after shrinking.
Small quill is kept putting under the big quill.
The quills which are kept in this way is called compound quills.
The oil is extracted from the bark of the cinnamon which is used in making of the highest quality perfume.
Demand of such kind of oils is most in Switzerland, France and Germany.
The medicinal properties of this oil is most.
200-300 kilograms cinnamon is got from the ten years old plantations.
Pink disease: this is spread by the fungus named carticum jawanikam.
On the stem and branches due to formation of pink white rough place the bark of that place gets destroyed due to that, that branch or stem dies.
To prevent this disease spray one percent Borda mixture.
Plants die due to the attack of the disease named Blite on the plants in the nursery.
To prevent this, spray 0.25 percent mixture of the medicine named Indofil M-45.
Crop of the cinnamon is attacked by many insects, but cinnamon gets harmed most from the butterfly.
To prevent this insect the spray of the 0.05 percent mixture of the medicine named Quinalphans has been found most beneficial.
Among the species of the tree, clove has an important place.
This the member of the Mirtesi family in botanical language which is called Ivzenia Cariophailas and Lavang in Sanskrit.
The native place of the clove is Molvakas (Indonesia).
Clove has been planted at first in the gardens of spices in Madras by East India Company in the year 1800.
Due to the success of its farming here, again in the year 1850 BC its farming was started in Nilgiri and Barliyar of the Tamilnadu.
In India in the clove producing regions Nadapuram Nilgiri, Trunelvelly and Kanyakumari are the main districts of Tamilnadu but in Kerala clove is produced in the Calicut, Kottayam, Kyulo and Trivendram districts.
In India, clove is cultivated in the maximum area (596 hectare land) in Kerala state.
In the world total 30,000 tons clove is produced.
In the World Indonesia is the largest producer country of the clove.
Beside that clove is cultivated in the Pemba, Janjibar Singapore, Shri Lanka and Malaysia etc, countries.
For the clove the hot and climate with more humidity is perfect.
For the successful cultivation of the clove make hilly land slanty by cutting it, due to that water will be drained immediately.
Clove could be grown eaisly from the sea surface to the 1500 meter high places.
Not much variety is found in the clove trees available in India.
In the World the clove of the Penang is assumed best in the quality perspective.
Indian Spices Research Institute, Kalicut, Kerala has developed two reformed varieties of the clove B-59 and B-95, which have better quality and yielding from the local varieties.
The new plant of the clove is prepared from the seed.
When fruits on the clove trees starts to fall down after complete preparation and ripening then take out the seed from these fallen fruits and sow it immediately in good type of the nursery.
Sow the seeds always in the row.
Fill in the plastic bags by making the mixture of the one part of the fertile soil, one part of the sand and three parts of the rotten compost.
After a year when plants become big then again in the big size of the bag (30cm × 15cm) the mixture of the soil, sand and compost is filled and in that plants are transferred.
In the nursery sprinkle the water regularly due to that moisture will remain in the nursery thus growth of the plants will be good and fast.
In the land in which clove is supposed to be cultivated, remove the weeds from that and in the first May-June of the monsoon make the hole of the 60 cm at the distance of the 6 meter.
After the first rain in June-July transplant plants in these holes.
From October to May the special attention should be given to the irrigation of the plants.
The plants of the clove like little-bit shady environment.
Kalapagoniyum Mukunvayadis and Mimosa Invisa should be planted in the plantations of the clove to prevent the soil erosion.
For the better growth of the clove plants it is necessary to use the compost and fertilizer.
But Agricultural Department of the Kerala state has recommended to give 20 gram nitrogen, 18 gram sulphar ans 50 gram potash in every tree of the clove in the first year and after raising the amount equal to this amount every year, in every old tree 300 gram nitrogen, 250 gram sulphar and 750 gram potash is given every year.
After five years of the plantation of the clove trees flower comes out, but after 15-20 years plants come in the complete position to flourish.
In the plain areas the process of the flourishing starts in September-October and in the high attitude area process of the flourishing starts in December-January.
At this time the length of the clove's flower-buds is 2cm.
Due to break of the branches the yielding of the next season reduces.
The fruit should not let formed on the clove trees because after forming the fruits the bad impact occurs over the next crop.
When the stem of the buds of the clove dries up and becomes dark brown and bud remains light brown, then it should be understood that clove prepared completely after drying up.
At this time the weight of the dried clove remains one third of the green clove.
Average 2 kilo from the complete mature tree and 500 kilo from per hectare dry clove is obtained.
Stem borer insects named scale and mealybug attack to the clove plants.
But for the prevention of the scale and mealybug the spray of the 0.05 percent Dymethoet (Rogar) has been found beneficial.
Mace is a costly spice.
It gives fragrance and tempting colour to food ingredients.
After drying the inner aril of the nutmeg mace is formed and nutmeg after drying the seed (Kernel).
The native place of the nutmeg is the Molakkas Ireland of the Indonesia.
In the world almost 7000 tons nutmeg and 1700 tons mesh are produced, in that there is a 60 percent contribution of the Indonesia.
For the cultivation of the nutmeg the hot and moist climate is more proper.
Nutmeg is farmed in the heavy soil, light loam soil and rocky red soil.
The very dry climate and water clog soil is not appropriate for the cultivation of the nutmeg.
According to the gender nutmeg has been divided in three parts, male, female and bisexual.
In the male plants only flower comes but fruits does not form.
In the female plants flower and fruits both come.
To get the fruit it is necessary for plants to be female or bisexual.
The work to develop the reformed variety of nutmeg is in progress in the Indian Spices Research Institute, Kalicutt.
Generally, from a mature tree of the nutmeg 1000 fruits may be obtained.
Diffusion of the nutmeg is done by the seeds.
After removing the layer over the seeds, they should be sown in the polythene bags filling it with the mixture of soil and compost.
Normally, seeds germinate after 50 days.
In these big bags, making the mixture of two parts compost and two parts fertile soil and one part sand should be filled.
These plants become mature to transfer in 18-24 months.
In the land nutmeg is going to be transplanted, it should be clean by removing weeds from it.
Then in that, in the month of May at the distance of 9 meters 60cm long, 60cm broad and 60cm deep hole should be dug.
After the first rain in these holes itself, transplant the nutmeg's plants.
For the transplantation artificial sunlight should be arranged.
In the gardens of the nutmeg the crop of the nut and coconut may be grown successfully.
Start to give 50 kilograms rotten compost of the dung and 2.5 kilo bone powder per tree when it starts to rain.
Fertilizers 40 grams Urea, 100 grams Single Super Phosphate and 80 grams Muriate of Potash per tree should be given every year.
From this the growth of the plants fasten.
After six years of the plantation of the nutmeg plants , it starts to come up flowers and fruits in the trees.
After nine months of flowering fruits ripen and become ready.
After fruits become ready, its outer layer splits and mace and nutmeg become separate.
Mace and nutmeg are dried up after separating.
After getting dried red coloured mace becomes yellow, then of the brown colour.
Farmers have to cut the 50 percent trees because they are male plants over which flower comes but fruits do not flourish.
This problem can be solved by botanical diffusion.
The falling down of the immature fruits of the nutmeg is a big problem.
Due to black spot over it fruits get decomposed.
To prevent this spry the 0.05 percent mixture of Indophil M-45 on the gap of 12 days just when symptoms of disease appear.
To prevent this disease, don't make the garden very dense by planting cyclic crops because shady climate and more moisture promote this disease.
This disease emerges from the fungus named Diplodiya Metalensis.
This infection reaches to the mace and nutmeg (kernel).
Nutmeg and mace are used in the both forms, spice and medicine.
Mace is used to make liquor, cake, cream piece, cream soup and soap because it is of the light pink colour.
These are very stimulating, digestive spices.
Nutmeg is the unfailing medicine of the diarrhea and placenta diseases.
A good pickle is made by the upper part of the nutmeg.
Saffron is the most oldest spice and most precious among all the spices, its birth is supposed to be East Europe.
Beside India it is cultivated in Iran, England, China, Spain, France and Austria etc. countries.
80-90 percent of the whole world's saffron is produced in Spain alone.
In India, saffron is produced in the Kashmir from quite long.
Himachal Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh are trying in this direction from quite a long time.
If saffron is cultivated from the scientific method, then more yielding can be obtained, importing that a good income could be obtained.
Saffron is the spice of the temperate climate.
It can be grown successfully in the places of 1,800 to 2,100 meter height.
The yielding of the saffron depends on the number of the flowers and on cold and sunny places flowers come in more number.
Places which have one thousand to 1500 kilometer rain is appropriate for it and snow fall also proves beneficial.
For the cultivation of saffron sandy soil is best.
It grows slowly in the clay soil and other heavy soils, and fruits do not get the complete shape.
Run the leveler after plaughing the land three four time.
Soil should be prepared in the summer weather itself.
To sow the saffron, at first small seed plots should be made.
The shape of the seed bed should be rectangular or square shaped.
Saffron is grown through the bulb.
Hence, same year itself flowers come in the bulbs of 2.5cm or bigger than this size.
Hence, taking account of the condition big bulbs should be planted.
The work of the bulb plantation should be done in mid of the July.
How late the bulb would be planted yielding would be that less.
Hence, must do the plantation at the time.
It has remarkable impact over the development of the bulb , of the distance between those and depth.
The distance between bulb to bulb should be 10cm and 15 to 20 cm distance between the two rows.
The bulbs which have been planted in the more depth grow less and reduction in their number is also found.
Better yielding does get by doing the transplantation with the help of diblar.
The base side of the bulb should be kept downward and pointed part upward.
To plant the bulbs in a hectare there is the need of the almost 2,50,000 bulbs.
It is mandatory to remove the weeds from the seedbed of the saffron.
Good yielding does obtain by removing weeds four times in a year.
These weeds removing should be done successively in March, July, August and September.
In Kashmir, generally no any fertilizer is put in the crop of the saffron.
But through the experiments, it has been known that Carbonic fertilizers and composts have good impact over the flowers.
In Spain people use the fertilizer of the feces.
Put the Super Phosphate and Muriate of Phosphate with the dung at the time of last plowing of the soil and put four installments of the urea in the standing crop , after 20 , 45 , 65 and 85 days of the germination.
Generally, irrigation is not done in the farm of saffron, but after planting the bulb if it does not rain within a week than a light irrigation should be done.
Flowers are plucked by hands in the morning and plucked flowers are dried up in sun for three to five days.
When flowers become dry, then stigmas (female saffron) are picked up.
The uppermost part of the stigma which is of orange color, is of the highest quality.
The lower part of the stigma is of a little lower quality.
Which is called Magenra saffron.
In this some white gleam is found which gets a lower price in the market.
From the female saffron, which has been taken out from 115 flowers one gram commercial saffron is found, hence, it is clear that for one kilogram saffron there is the need of almost 1,15,000 flowers.
After four and five years a bulb gives birth to many bulbs.
Due to that reason, having many bulbs in the limited place their growth stuck thus these bulbs shoud be planted seperately by digging.
Saffron is a royal spice.
In India Saffron is used in many Ayurvedic and Unani medicines.
The impact of the saffron is stimulating, hot and dry, due to that it is beneficial in digestive, urinary and internal diseases of women.
Saffron is nectar for heart patients.
With the consumption of the saffron men-women always remain young.
In the ancient era also kings used to consume saffron daily.
This is the reason that saffron is still the most precious spice in the world.
Two days workshop was organised in Nainital on May 13-14, 2010 on the subject ' Conversion of the Agriculture in Uttrakhand ' by Govind Ballabh Pant Agriculture and Engineering university.
At the inaugural occasion of the workshop the chief guest honorable governor Uttrakhand , Mrs. Magrent Alva in her address to stop the migration of the youths and to call back the migrated youths in the state and to make them participate in the development of there, emphasized the need to make the agriculture of the state beneficial.
Mrs. Alva has said that Uttrakhand is known for its pilgrimage and beauty in the whole world with India, but for its development, especially the development of its agriculture there is the need of the domino effect schemes.
For the agricultural development of the state she appealed to make the effective and useful plan, from that the living standard of hilly farmers will improve.
Special guest honorable Agriculture minister Shri Triveni Singh Ravat mentioned the biggest priorty of the present time to save the agricultural land due to raising urbanization and industrialization pressure.
According to the changing climate conditions itself, he suggested to finalise the future agricultural development scheme.
Mr. Rawat for the hilly areas, saying the group cultivation beneficial emphasized to adopt the voluntary Chakbandi and to apply it in the whole state and to establish a special agriculture zone (SAZ).
Vice Chancellor, Pantnagar University, Dr. B.S.Bist hoped in his welcome address that the Agricultural Development Program will get a new dimension by workshop.
Simultaneously,the Vision-2030 program of the university will also get an important base.
Dr. Suman Sahay of the Non Government organization ' Gene Campaign ' and PadamShree Dr. Shekhar Pathak made aware with the facts about the social zone in the agriculture development and climate.
The coordination of the workshop was done by the Vice chancellor Dr. B. S. Bist and secretary, governor, Mr. Ashok Pai.
The intensive discussion was done dividing the workshop in four groups, garden, animal husbandry and social challenges, biodiversity and climate.
On the second day of the workshop while addressing the final session the honorable governor said that in the hilly area the testing of the recommendation related to agriculture, gardening, husbandry etc. will be done by the committee, which is formed under the chairmanship of Dr. M. S. Swaminathan.
In the workshop it was recommended mainly to do agriculture and to make the settlement rule, to reduce the malnutrition in women and children, to give encouragement to husbandry, yielding of herbs, gardening, etc. with the agriculture, on which calculated investment of 3000 crore rupees was proposed to the central government.
After the research of the recommendations which were given in the workshop it has been sent to the state government by Pantahagar University after publishing titled ' Nainital Ghoshana ' , from which, it will be helpful for the state government to determine the agriculture related rule of the state and in its implementation.
One day conference was organized in the joint auspices of Directorate of extension education and Dhanuka Agritech Limited New Delhi on 08 June, 2010 in the seminar room of the Agriculture University.
Taking account of security in these situations he mentioned the need of the rational and integrated use of the chemicals.
While mentioning the wide range scheme Vision-2030 Dr. Bisht said important to the knowledge based agriculture and also mentioned the need to clear the main issues and points of the second green revolution by taking care of food problem of the future.
Director of the Extension education Dr. Y. P. S. Dabas hoped to get the new direction from this conference, especially for farmers.
At this conference, it was emphasized to make the long term schemes for agriculture development in the next fifty years and the need to work on that.
At this conference , the scientists of the Agriculture Science Center of the Universities , the representatives of the NGOs and progressive farmers participated.
With the motivation to connect the women directly from the economy development programs and to convey the obtained research achievements in the field of the home science in the joint auspices of Home Science University and Extension Education directorate two days workshop on the subject ' Home science research and the extension interface ' on April 09-10,2010 was organised in the seminar hall of Home Science University.
On the inaugural occasion of this workshop the chief guest and vice chancellor Dr. B. S. Bisht in his address emphasised the need of a strong broadcasting mechanism for the significant broadcasting of the developed technologies in the field of the home science.
With this, he expected from the scientists and officers who are connected to the communication technology to collect the right information about different technologies which are developed in the field of the home science and convey them to the general people.
Dean, Home Science University, Dr. Rita Singh Raghuvanshi mentioned the need to improve qualitatively the living standard of the farmer's families and to determine its parameter.
Research Director, Dr. S. K. Saini saying important to the women's participation in the agriculture emphasized over improvement of their living standard.
The chief scientist of the Regional Planning Directorate, zone-4, Kanpur, Dr. Atar Singh emphesised on the hopeful growth in the present rate 6% of adopting the new technologies of agriculture and to determine the special work scheme of the communication.
In this workshop, with the coordinators and scientists of the All Indian Coordinated Research Scheme and the Agriculture science center of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand total 50 scientists participated.
This participation in this workshop was said beneficial and useful to the knowledge which was gained over here by participants and this workshop has been said as a coordinator between research and broadcasting.
Regional Scheme Directorate, Zone-4, the chief scientist of Kanpur Dr. Atar Singh also said this workshop the demand of the time and strong medium of the rural economy improvement.
Simultaneously, he also advocated the organisation of such trainings on this basis.
Coordination of this program done by Dr. Deepa Vinay.
In this program, lectures were delivered on the different aspects by Dr. Deepa Vinay, Dr. Abha Ahuja, Dr. Manish Gahlot, Dr. Pratibha Kwatra and Mrs. Pushpa Shukla.
In the united auspices of the Agricultural Science Center, Ranichauri (Tihari-Gadhawal) and Forest and Mountain Agricultural University, Mountain Complex, Ranichauri one day agriculture fair and agriculture exhibition has been organised on May 17, 2010.
While organising the fair festival honorable vice chancellor Dr. B. S. Bisht in his address said that farmers should bring growth in production by adopting the new technology related to agriculture.
In the farmer fair and agriculture exhibition beside the departments of the Agricultural Science Center, the Forest and Mountain Agriculture Universities the stalls were put up by the linear departments of districts and NGOs.
Activities were praised by the chief guest while examining the agricultural exhibition.
Under the main attraction of the fair the exhibition ans selling of the developed crops of Kharif and developed seeds of vegetables, exhibition and selling of developed agricultural machines and lectures, by organising the scientific discussion farmers were given information.
Simultaneously, the problems related to agriculture were solved of the farmers who came to fair.
On the occasion of the world environmental day in the auspices of the Agricultural Science Center, Lohaghat in Champavat one day farmer fair and agricultural exhibition was organised on June 05, 2010, which has been inaugurated by the joint director (High Education) Uttarakhand, Dr. B. S. Bisht.
Through these stalls, farmers, which came to to fair were informed by new technologies and information by the related departments.
On the stall of the Agricultural Science Center, Lohaghat, the information was given about the new technologies, simultaneously the plants of vegetables which have been grown by the hybrid and developed seeds with the modern techniques were sold to the farmers.
In this farmer's fair almost 500 farmers and women participated.
One day farmer fair and agriculture exhibition was organised in the Agricultural Science Center, Gwaldam (Chamoli) on April 22, 2010.
The officers of the district level line departments and reprensetives of the NGOs gave the information to the farmers about the schemes which is run by their departments and organisations.
In the farmers' conference the problems of farmers related to agriculture and animal husbandry were solved by the scientists of the center.
On this occasion, in the agricultural exhibition the Agricultural Science Center and linear departments presented their different products and technologies.
On June 22, 2010 Agricultural Science Center, Matela (Almora) was visited by the honorable vice chancellor, Dr. B. S. Bisht.
Simultaneously, the administration building built in the center, hostel and residential buildings were examined and the works of the center were reviewed by organising the meeting of the scientists.
During this, the dean of the Forest and Mountain Agricultural University, Ranichauri, Dr. M. S. C. Nautiyal and dean, Engineering University, Bharsar, Dr. P. S. Bisht were also present.
In the border areas of the tribal-dominated Joshimath block of the Chamoli district was visited by Vice chancellor Dr. B. S. Bisht with the scientists of the Agricultural Science Center, Gwaldam.
Dr. Bisht said that, Pantnagar University with the help of the Indian Army is working on a project to motivate for self employment by connecting the villagers of theses border areas with industry and animal husbandry.
He invoked the tenant farmers to grow the developed and new varieties regarding the different crops and their varieties which are being grown, by visiting the agriculture areas of these villages.
The problems related to the diseases and insects of crops which were presented by farmer were solved by the in charge of the Agricultural Science Center Dr. S. M. A. Rehman.
Representatives and tenant farmers made the honorable vice chancellor aware with the enormous possibilities of the off season vegetable production and industrialization.
In the Mana and Malari village the mini kit of the vegetables were distributed by Dr. Bisht.
He said that to embody this scheme very soon the group of the agricultural scientists of the Pantnagar University will visit these areas.
The Agricultural Science Center and the Forest and Mountain Agricultural University, Ranichauri were visited by Mr. Bhagat Singh Koshiyari, honorable Member of parliament and ex-chief minister, Uttrakhand on April 08, 2010.
The information center of the Agricultural Center was praised heartily by him and the programs which are running by the Agricultural Science Center were applauded.
He also said that the Agricultural Science Center is the proper medium to make farmers reach the modern techniques of the agriculture.
The efforts made by the scientists of the Agricultural Science Center in the adverse conditions of the hilly areas were applauded by him.
In the auspices of the Directorate of Extension Education the mid term review workshop was organised on May 17-18, 2010 in Forest and Mountain Agricultural University, Ranichauri.
The chief guest assistant director (Agriculture Extension), Dr. A. K. Mehta has emphasized to develop the farmers as human resources after training them technically.
The Director of the Regional Planning Commission, Zone-4, Kanpur, Dr. A. K. Singh said that Agricultural Science centers by joining hand with district's Linear Departments the new developed technologies related to agriculture should be exhibited.
Director of the Extension Education, Dr. Y. P. S. Dabas emphasized on the need to work by the Agricultural Science Center making the strategy according to districts.
In the workshop the works from October 2009 to March 2010 of the Agricultural Science Centers of Uttrakhand were reviewed and a detailed action plan for upcoming year was discussed and it was implemented.
From the poultry unit at the age of seven weeks 2100 body weight and at the age of 19 weeks eggs is being obtained.
On the exhibition per unit total 4500.00 rupees per year expenses came.
Looking at the exhibition results the poultry farmers are getting huge encouragement.
From the exhibition result the conclusion comes out that if the varieties which is developed by carrie will be adopted by farmers then there will be improvement in the economic status of poultry farmers.
While releasing, these literatures were told very beneficial for circulating works and farmers.
By the farmers of the village Kehadgaon of the district Almora, the developmental block Syalde their land for the foundation of the research and communication center has been transferred for free to the Govind Ballabh Pant Agriculture and Engineering University, Pantnagar.
The main objective of the foundation of this Research and Information Center is to prepare the model based on ecological balance and to do the work of broadcasting for the instant development in the field of agriculture, industrialization and animal husbandry in the areas of mountain river basins.
For this, the help will be taken from the scientists of the different subjects and departments which are engaged in the development.
Dr. Bisht said that in the river basins of the hilly areas there is capacity to fulfill the requirement of the fruit-vegetable and milk demands of the whole area.
Director of Extension Education, Dr. Dabas said that at first with the starting of the training program of business based on agriculture, the developed seed, vegetable sapling and plant of fruits will be made available to the local farmer for agriculture.
By the Agricultural Science Center, Chamoli (Gwaldam)for the village youth the training on the subject ' the commercial production of the campost ' was organised on February 21-25, 2011.
In the hilly areas most of the farmers are dependent on agriculture for their living, for that they are using the fertilizers which are formed traditionally.
Due to having forest over here animal fossils are obtained easily which is the main part of the biological techniques.
Dr. Rehman said that generally farmers use the raw dung which is not rotten in the field, from that the problem of the Kurmula insects emerges and it harms more to the crops.
While training the information to keep animals healthy was given by animal husbandry expert, Dr. Uma Nauliya.
In the past three months, four trainings were organised by the center, in that 49 males and 22 females who came from 07 Gram Sabha participated.
In these programs, the detail information on micro irrigation techniques, cultivation of vegetables in poly tunnel, organic farming in the hilly areas, cultivation processes of chilly production etc. topics were given to trainee and on the principle of ' Seeing is believing ' through the video films farmers were trained.
By the Agricultural Science Center, Jakhadhar one day farmer fair was organised on March28, 2011.
In this fair more than 500 farmers from the different villages of the district participated.
On this occasion, district's agriculture department, gardening department, animal husbandry department, village and NGOs made farmers aware about their schemes and activity by setting up stalls.
Farmers observed the presented polythene mulch in the domain of the center, to cultivate the off season vegetables in the polyhouse of the small investment and micro irrigation techniques through the conference by the farmers got the solution of their problem and curiosity by the scientists of the center.
Under the Large Scale Demonastration of I.P.M. technology in Uttrakhand scheme, selected villages under the schemes of center one day training was organised in Tapnipal, Gosani and Pardhyani.
From every village 30 farmers were selected.
Despite that, a detailed information was given on the subjects according to the climate the varieties which give more production, rainwater storage, plastic, moving, nursery production in low - tunnel playhouses etc.
Under the project by the center hybrid seed and tricoderma was made available for farmers.
From the accomodation of the agriculture division under the special component plant on the subject of employment techniques of farmers two day workshop was organized on February 8-9,2011.
The assistant director of the water resources, Mr. R. K. Azad, while inaugurating the workshop said that looking at the growing population, reducing ploughing and on proper time no rain etc. circumstances, farmers will have to adopt the modern agricultural techniques.
The center in charge officer, Dr. M. P. Singh said that from the center the scientific information and suggestion of agriculture, gardening, the vegetable yielding has been giving always.
Vegetable scientist Dr. Aradhana Joshi and Dr. Ajay Kumar Singh made the presentation from the nursery of the vegetable plants to the importance of secured cultivation in this work.
Fisheries scientist Dr. B. K. Singh said the important program of the agricultural development to the fish production.
While examination vice chancellor has expressed the satisfaction towards the works done in the fisheries production, secured cultivation, vegetable production etc. fields.
Vice Chancellor called the tenant farmers of the area that to improve their economic condition instead of traditional cultivation encourage the cultivation with scientific techniques.
Dr. Bisht said that in the coming years to give the encouragement to poultry farming, animal husbandry, gardening programs will be conducted, from that the financial condition of farmers will be strong.
He praised looking at the production of tomato in Sui under the roof of the ex-army man Tara Dutt Kharkwal's house.
Dr. B. S. Bisht said that according to the climate of the hilly area the encouragement will be given to the production of the modern variety of hens.
He said that due to the change in the climate cycle secured cultivation, mushroom and fish production programs should be encouraged.
Dr. Bisht requested women that they should come in front to more production in less lands by using the modern agricultural techniques properly through the Agricultural Science Center.
Cultivation is the medium, through that people can live with respect.
At center, one day farmer fair and agriculture exhibition was organised in Syaldah on March 28 , 2011.
While inaugurating the fair the head of the block, Mr. Radha Raman Upreti said that by adopting the new techniques developed in agriculture and related fields the agriculture production may be increased.
With the stalls of the center the officers of the district level linear departments and representatives of the NGOs also gave the information to farmers about the schemes which is being run in their departments and organisations.
In the fair almost 530 farmers participated.
These training which were organised were related to the agricultural diversity, organic cultivation, maun palan, animal husbandry, crop yielding, use of the poly house and maintenance of the agricultural equipments and horticulture crops.
From these training programs 488 trainee got benefitted.
The crop of the rabi is standing in the farms.
There is the possibility of reduction in the production of the crops and fruits due to less rain than expected in the month of January.
The the sowing season of the Jayad's vegetable is coming.
Do sowing intermittently in different stages from February to April early, late from the time different vegetables like lady finger, tomato, chilli, brinjal, pumpkin, gouard, thus constantly for the long time the availability of the vegetables will be maintained and the benefit could be obtained without season also.
Always buy the seed from authetic shops or Agricultural University.
Before sowing treat the seed with organic culture or chemicals.
In the summer these vegetables give good price in the market.
Newspaper , Radio , durdarshan give the information related to agricuture , simultaneously , agriculture divison and development division are also working to convey the information to farmers.
Getting information according to climate and agriculture condition then using their farm the expected benefit can be obtained.
Connecting the available modern agricultural techniques with information technology, it could be reached to the far established farmers quickly.
In the human-society , the position of the cultivation has been important due to three reasons , it will be.
The first reason is that which often comes in the news.
Despite the whole industrialization and development even today a huge part of the human race stay in the villages and for their living depends on cultivation and animal husbandry.
Including India in many countries of the world even today the biggest source of the employment is cultivation and animal husbandary.
In the farms the attack of insects and diseases has increased, danger has raised and stability has come in the production.
For that much production farmers have to use the chemical fertilizer, pesticides and water in gradual increasing quantity.
A source of the farmer's crisis is modern technology.
In India the prosperity of the green revolution was limited to some areas, some classes and some crops.
But the time of this limited prosperity now passed also.
From last six to seven years the suicide cases of farmers is continued.
This is a grounbreaking situation which is a symbol of the huge crisis.
But indifferent from this the government of India is moving ahead on the path of the globalization related improvements.
Under these improvements the law of delimit is being paralysed, new seed law and patent laws are being made, from the selling and buying of the land to seed supply, contract cultivation, marketing etc. in every activity of the cultivation multinational company is being given complete freedom and putting aside every tension and warnings the dangerous technology like gene fusion is being permitted.
Thus, a cruel and inhuman campaign is running to hand over cultivation to the companies and reduce the population related to farming.
But an important question is being forgotten in this blind race.
Kishan Patnayak has been a leading socialist thinker and the worker of this era of India.
Increasing role of the public movements in Indian politics he recognised quite early, understood, made a connection with them and tries to give them a thoughtful direction.
He also remained a staunch supporter of the farmer movement.
In any process of the system-change he used to assume an important role of the farmers and farmer movements.
In the decades of the eighties and nineties big farmer movements occurred in India.
The big sit-ins and rallies of farmers has occurred, in those lakhs of the farmers participated.
The exploitation of farmers, do not get the proper price of the cultivation, the increasing debt over farmers, the raising taxes over farmers, the increasing bill of electricity etc. were his main issues.
Farmer movement cannot be conservative.
That cannot run like a trade union, Kishan Patnayak has also outlined, this issue.
The movement of the unionized labors may be conservative.
The salary of labors of a factory may increase under a present system; it is possible without change in the system.
But the income of the farmers cannot increase in the present system.
Its reason is not just this, that the number of the farmers is quite high and they are an important and the biggest part of the nation.
After freedom of the colonies also this exploitation is continued from the new-colonization ways.
Not getting the chance to exploit the colonies or new-colonies outside the country capitalism finds the colony inside the country.
Sacchidanand Sinha and Kisan Patnayak have given it the name of ' Internal Colony '.
Depriving villages and farmers itself the huge industrialization, army and arm-manufacturing and the program of space campaign kept running in the United Nation.
Chinese movement was mainly the movement of the farmers itself.
It gave the China a new and true native form.
But due to domination of the capitalistic thought of the industrial development, China is also going on the path of the capitalism globalization.
Even there very rapidly and on the huge level farmers and villagers are being victim of the poverty, unemployment, destitute and migration.
In the last of the decades of the eighties, in India farmer movement was at its high.
In Karnataka in the leadership of Professor M. D. Najudaswami, in Maharashtra in the leadership of Sharad Joshi and in Western Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab in the leadership of Mahendra Singh Tiket, a huge movement storm of the movement was running.
The unity of these movements and coordinated approach could have given a new turn to the history of the nation.
But this historical chance slipped from the hands.
On 2 October, 1989, in Delhi, event of dispute on stage in the huge rally of the vote club was like a symbol.
It will be useful to discuss an event in this context.
Possibly, it will be the issue of the last year of the Boat Club Rally, when interstate coordination committee had been organised of the farmer organisations.
Kishan Patnayak was also present at this meeting.
He said that since the farmer is the biggest class of the nation , his interest cannot be different from the country's interest.
He will have to think about the benefit of the country.
Kishan Patnayak also said it that for the betterment of the farmers the problem will not be solved just by asking more money for yielding.
Sharad Joshi, later became the staunch supporter of globalization, liberalization and capitalism.
That's why, perhaps he wanted to away from the discussion at that meeting.
Sharad Joshi showed the false dream to the farmer that from the policies of the free trade export of their yielding will increase and they will get the attractive price.
The importation of the agriculture yielding raised and price fell down in home markets also.
By progressing Sarad Joshi became the member of parliament and also became the chairman of the ' Agriculture Investment and Price Commission ' , but the farmers of Maharashtra reached to the border of suicide.
Eventually, international market does not work with the good will of Sharad Joshi, powerful Western Countries, works according to their huge donation and benefits of their huge multinational companies.
This is an important lesson for the farmer movement.
We are used to of closing the city-towns and seeing it.
The success of such shut downs is evaluated on the shutting down of shops, the movement of rickshaws is also closed, then it was like completely closed.
But the ' shut down ' of the farmer is not the ' shut down ' of shopkeepers, thus it will have a different form.
It could take the form to refuse to pay the taxes and debts.
The chairman of Sangham, Nayadu which has been arrested under the national safety ordinance, gave suggestion to the farmers that stop sending milk, vegetables, and other things to towns.
If you will ask these farmer leaders for any paper or booklet or any printed description of their demands , in that, light is given over their perspective , then you will be disappointed.
For the advertisement of demands no posters will be seen anywhere.
Among them a leader tried that he would remember the list of those demands, which had been determined before seven-eight years back at the time of the establishment of the Vyavsaigal Sangam.
That organization remained in papers for a long time.
But shortly M.G.R. started to play ' double role '.
They announced to gain the confidence of the poor farmers that last remained debt of small and poor farmers will be forgiven, but farmers did not get influenced by this.
Now they assume M.G.R. their enemy.
Due to this, recently a normal debate, which could have been solved normally at local level, became a base to blaze the state wide anger.
Tamilnadu has influenced Karnataka, but its echo could not be listen in Kerala.
Perhaps reason for it is this that Kerala has cultivated mainly cash crops like coconut, cardamom, cashew, coffee, rubber etc.
Among them, good price is gotten of the few, in Andhra few ex-congress leaders joining hands, invoked farmers that they do movement, but it will not have any impact.
Rich farmers are guiding the farmer movement, criticism on this matter is meaningless.
It is obvious, in the first phase of any self motivated movement the guidance by educated and better people in financial perspective.
Small and poor farmers get motivation from their struggle and sacrifice and such educated and relatively rich farmers do the work of voice of those small poor farmers.
This is the reason that the press and big business clan will give support to those efforts from which the leadership of the farmer movement would come into the hand of political parties.
They will also wish this that the movement should be in the hand of the lobby of rich farmers, thus whenever there will be wish it could be crushed or stopped.
Like all the other professional politicians communist leaders are also not understanding this situation.
Thus the farmer movement, with its completeness, is a challenge and a sting for every political party.
Look with another perspective , then the present farmer movement is an extension of the backward castes movement.
In the south, the movement of the backward castes has reached to the stable point.
Middle castes have raised their social status, in political form their leaders pushed the brahmins relatively in weak condition.
All of these are self motivated, unorganised and in conservative meanings apolitical movements.
All these movements are carving the politics of their own style.
The leaders of Maharashtra, Punjab, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh farmer movements had come.
The leader of Karnataka and Tamilnadu was not present.
Nanjudaswami and Ravi Varma of Karnataka had been arrested in the ' Rail Roko ' movement.
Many papers were read about the organization of state and the present condition of the movement.
After discussion on that, argument happened on programs and ideological aspect also.
In the discussion, clash of the opinion occurred.
Such kind of the exchange of the ideas between farmers and scholars was happening first time.
Thus, some impatience was obvious.
But from the criticism of the intellectuals Sharad Joshi used to get very angry, due to his intolerance many people had to stop their presentation.
In Varanasi Seminar, discussion could not happened about the relation of farmer-labor.
Even though some causerie happened.
There was an expectation of detailed discussion on this debate.
But due to Sharad Joshi it did not happen.
Once discussion should be happened on this among the leaders and scholars of the movement.
If a strong discussion will happen then the welfare of scholars will happen and farmers also have benefit.
Farmers will not have any harm from the discussion, because no any modern science is in the favor of the farmers.
If discussion will happen then this matter will come in front that these sciences are detached from the people of India and reality.
Economics has not studied farmers yet as a group.
Where ever, the big landlords are owner of the thousands and hundred acre, there is the meaning of the labor struggle.
This is not just about the nominee land.
No delimitation law has been made yet in the cultivation of coffee, rubber, cashew, tea etc.
Communist governments also do not want.
The farmer movement of Karnataka criticizes the owners of coffee plantations openly.
Whatever discussion happened in the seminar from that some aspects of Sharad Joshi's own thought came in front.
To present his own thought, he needs more time.
But whatever came to listen at the seminar , from that it seemed that in the farmer movement many kind of opinions and perspective may emerge.
Some young scientists had also come to the seminar.
All these people are talented and want to make an alternative scientific methodology.
Their establishment is that technology is made according to the economy, thus, according to Europe-America economy a technology has been made.
Not just technology, but scientific thought is also adhered to it.
Without knowing the scientific reasons itself, Indian farmers has looked at eucalyptus yet with the eye of doubt.
This dried up the crop lands, it showing the temptation of money to the farmers wants to involve in the cultivation of eucalyptus moving from the cultivation of the grains, eventually it will come in the use of the Indian-foreigner industrialists.
It is the tree which does not grow flower, no fruit.
The Karnataka farmer movement had campaigned to remove the eucalyptus.
But due to the wrong policy of the farmer movement, such situation may emerge which is against our motivation.
When eucalyptus or soya bean will start to grow in more quantity the country-abroad industrialists will organize to take it in cheap, cultivation will be succumbed to them completely.
Yet cultivation is not succumbed completely to the capitalists.
The farmer movement of the Uttar Pradesh's Indian Farmer Union and their leader Mahendra Singh Tickat has became the motivation-center for the whole country's farmers.
The personality of Tiket, and Tiket's face also the matter of discussion.
The speech and face of the leader never before this had been that similar to the speech and face of the common man of the village.
The opposite of it is happening.
from the awakening of the new power politician and intellectual both are feeling that some one better than them has come.
Looking the anger against the strong Congeress government like Uttar Pradesh it is obvious for Rajiv Gandhi to become scared and to give the new instructions to the planning commission.
People who say the movement of the rich farmers to the farmer movement, in their mind farmer and rich farmer is synonymous.
There would be wrenched to such minds also by the Meerut movement.
Tiket has reduced the expenses which is being done on marriage functions till this , that in the marriage procession not more than ten people could go.
Can any class of the Indian society which is going toward more prosperity from prosperity for a little time also adopt this?
Book writers and communist politicians, both ask a question from Mahendra Singh Tiket - what are you doing about landless?
It should be assumed the limitation of the mental bankruptcy.
Tiket is not any professor, and he does not have any ambition to make the government.
Such questions can be asked from the professors only or it should be asked from those who play politics of power.
Ticket accepts that he is running a trade union of the farmers.
No one asked from the those who run the trade unions of rail staffs or post office staffs that what are you doing about the poor labors and rickshaw pullars?
Then why is ticket asked about landless?
This thing is like of communist.
The difference is just that communist says landless labor walk behind the factory labor and the leader of the farmer movement say that walk behind the farmers.
In the map of both communist movement and the farmer movement the importance of the landless labors is on the second number.
Thus, raising the question of landless any communist can not hit the stakes.
The most important thing about the Meerut movement is its defeat.
Despite of such a huge and unprecedented movement not a single demand of the farmers was fufilled.
Farmers came back empty handed.
Demand was not such that accepting the few important thing, revolution would have occurred.
Such demands have been accepted earlier.
By blazing the violence also ticket could have reconciled some demands.
If the farmer movement suppose to be kept under the farmer leadership, then encouragement cannot be given to violence.
By blazing the violence some instantaneous demands could have been fulfilled, but for always the picture of the movement would have changed.
I have criticized the critics of Ticket, they are professors of another stream.
I had tried to shatter the argument of those urban intellectuals who try to retrograde it by saying the movement of the rich farmers to the farmer movement; they feel negative and absurd the leader like Ticket.
To tell about the lacks of any movement is one thing and to announce that movement enemy is another thing.
The leftist professors of the universities have declared enemy to the farmer movement.
The fundamental misconception of the communist science has still been retained that oppressed, exploited people with their movements start to form the opinion of system-change.
They should have known after the hundred and fifty years of the experience and in their iconography the should have done necessary improvement that from the cohesion of movement of exploited and intellect movement itself the motion of system-change is formed.
After the independence, the movement of the factory labors and urban staffs remained on the bulge.
It did not get also the intellect support of the leftist professors.
Assume that without depending on the outer leader the revolution of the tribels occur, then will we ask to them that what do you say about the salary of professors and Afganistan.
If you will not answer to this then your revolution is wrong.
While talking with any leftist professor for five minutes he used three times the word ' rich farmer '.
If the definition of this word is asked then words will not come from his mouth.
' Rich ' word indicated toward the expense capacity, indicates toward the living standard.
In Indian situation with taking how much expenditure capacity or living standard has rich class been defined?
What is the number of the rich farmers in different states?
On these questions, professors have not written any book yet.
Any less literate , semi-literate farmer leader if will want to determine his policy on these questions , then after reading which book he will give his opinion?
Beside supreme being which kind of resource of knowledge he can have.
In Hindustan leftists especially socialist tried to unified farmers as a poor class after the independence.
Lohiya had written a long essay about the problems of farmers in that he had said the things to adopt a new perspective and decentralize system.
The Facet of communists towards the problems of the farmers was full of contradictions.
They assume farmers' low bourgeoisie ' (petty bourgeoisie).
But communist or socialist , anyone from both , did not run the effective movement in the country.
There was a vision-problem in the communist and socialist have never been a good organizer also.
Communist established a good organization of industrial worker, but socialists neither established worker-organization and nor farmer-organization.
At this time, among the communists and socialists, no one has the organization of the farmers in the country.
But between this the self motivated movements have raised.
But beside socialists and communists a powerful class of rich and baron farmers always tried to do politics from the side of the farmers.
Their interest was not in, to raise the problem of the normal farmers.
They wanted that any progressive solution should not come out of the land-problem , the laws like delimitation of the border or bataidari should not be implemented thus their interest could be saved.
Thus in different parties they had a strong lobby ( the effective group which make the pressure).
But poor farmers did not have any lobby and they did not get unified.
See its ideological aspect.
The economic policy of the western countries, is based on this assumption that the important economical work will be done in the industrial field, the biggest part of the population will indulge in this field itself.
In these countries cultivation is a subsidiary activity, very few people are indulged in this field.
in those, cultivation runs on the system of the business, after loss in that, government fulfills.
Country like Britain does not take tension of this matter that enough grain is produced at their place or not.
Industrialist and farmer, for both of them business is necessary.
Industrialists keeps nailing businessmen hence businessmen earns less benefit in comparision of the industrialist but by selling the production of the farmers he becomes more rich than farmers because farmers do not have any control over that.
This thing is not just in the matter of the grain, it also applies on some commercial crops and forest-cultivation also.
The businessmen of the forest-cultivation take it almost free (means at very low prices) and sell at very high prices, like-chironji, figs, bidi-leaf, etc.
After selling their products at cheap price when farmer goes to buy the factory stuff-either clothes to wear or resource of the production- then he has to buy that at highest price , because price of the factory's stuff from big city , from big city to small town and from there while coming to village market increase four times.
Thus, we see that as a seller farmer gets very low price whereas as a buyer he has to pay maximum price.
The solution of the problem will have to be found- when farmer sell his products then he should get right price, like this when he buys then he should get in cheap price.
The investment of the factory's product will have to be examined.
Meanwhile the cost of general usage things will have to be announced.
The cost of the things of the general needs should not be more than the margin.
If this will be the basis of the coast, then the price of the sugar will not be more than two rupees per kilo.
Till now the government has made the commission to decide the cost of some products of the cultivation , which name is' Agrictlure-Rate-Commission '.
In the whole country, there is management of irrigation in the just one-fourth of the farms.
The condition of more than half of the farmers is miserable.
They depends one the nature very much that in every three years one gets affected by flood, draught or frost and the price of the seeds does not return also.
One strong demand should be there from the side of the farmers of the whole country that in a certain period- seven years or ten years- in the every field the arrangement of water must be done.
Where ever from the side of the government there is the arrangement of the irrigation, there in the initial three-four years tax for irrigation should not applicable because this time is consumed by farmers to do the new arrangements and to learn the new techniques of the farming.
What will be the result after applying all these policies in the cultivation, Just imagine it.
The first result would be this that there will be need of the huge financial in the initial ten years in the agriculture-field and for this government has to cut the other expenses.
Then this is an important question that from where the expenditure would be cut thus in the huge level money would be spent and condition of farmers would improve.
Production of such things will have to be banned.
For example, in the market still food is prepared and sold.
Plate of two rupees is sold and even hundred rupees also.
In the five star hotels of big cities, even plates of more than a hundred rupees are sold.
If the workers of our villages will get loan and other facilities then they can also make shoes like Bata.
That's why in every district, there will be a shoe factory or many factories of the shoes or in every district, there will be one or many factories of matchstick, clothes etc. despite of that there will be just fist full factories in the country.
In every district-block factory will be started to open then there will be the need to open the schools for technical training.
In such situation, girl and boys after passing the matriculation by connecting with the factories will learn the work and later it could be their occupation.
With study, they would be able to work also.
In todays education, education is separate and employment is separate.
But in the changed system, there will be opposite of it.
The center of today's economy is urban industry, hence everything is urban-centered.
If agriculture will be the main occupation then the administration will have to be arranged which decentralized the villages and empowered the Panchayat.
America and Russia want also that in the country like India there should be centered political and financial syste, thus they could fulfill their interest easily.
Hence, if the farmer movement will go for long then it will not have to fight with just capitalists and towns they it will have to face the challenges of the world's superpowers also.
In the situation when government blaze the violence, the debate of violence and nonviolence comes up.
These debates often creates doubt.
Despite of looking this that the farmer movement will take the support of the violence or of the nonviolence, we should look the question in another way.
The farmer is a class which cannot struggle for a long time taking the support of the violence.
To do so, he will have to unify in the different ways, will have to collect weapons, will have to hide.
By doing so, he will not be remained farmer, but will be a soldier.
Good government is of the two kinds- without farmer the government for the farmer's benefit , then , the government of the farmers.
Now we are working for the first.
Now the question is this that farmers are organised for them for how long.
If the farmer is not organized himself, then this is not the question that the government is listening or not.
The farmers are really organized, there will be three proofs of this.
First, except baronial and capitalist farmers rest of the farmers are together or not.
Second, demands are clear or not.
Farmers are not the property less or education less.
Then why do they not use the political use of their majority of numbers?
For the farmers' interest , what should be changed in the political system?
In their benefit , why does not he present a political opinion?
It has been must , to find the reason for this.
Today's time is the transition period.
In the present situation villages and farmers have not been finished because the motion of the development has not been fasten.
Urbanization or mechanization of the agriculture should be with the speed, is not happening with that speed.
Hence, the existence of the village and farmers is being tolerated.
Development will be fulfilled, then population of the village will migrate to the city completely and instead of the small farms the mechanical cultivation will be started on the huge farms.
In the politics, farmer by getting together can demand for relief time to time, but the administration of the whole politics and finance should be done taking in center the interest of the farmers- to say this is even the opposition of the capitalist idea and is the opposition of the communist idea also.
Gandhism was never a thought of a political group.
In such situation, the farmer centered politics was not possible.
To say this that the all the policies of the country should be according to the development of the big industry, seems proper.
Modern education, culture and literature has been making strong this assumption in the mind of the common people.
In this situation, how will the politics of the farmers will be possible?
Leave the matter of Asia-Africa, in the east Europe and ex-states of the Soviet Union also the fact is emerging from that, the old knowledge is being shattered.
Will there be motorcars with every citizen of the countries like Yugoslavia, Bulgaria, Ujabekistan.
How many occupation will be open to establish the half of the population of the world in the towns , who are poor at this time?
If all the natural resources of the world (to and fuels) would be finished up in 50 years , even though , will the Europianization of the half population of the world be done?
From the modernization of the village which kind of the development will be there, to understand the model of it and to anticipate the structure of it, modern Kerala could be seen, where the difference between the urban and rural is not visualized.
Among the countrysides there are some townships.
Kerala is the most educated state in India.
Actually, the scientific facts may be used for many kinds of technologies.
Technology may be big and may be run on small finance also.
But the bravery of the science will be proved when it will be used by the society with low capital.
When to take benefit of it, any country or community will not have depend on foreign capital or foreign loan, then science or technology will get the honor.
To form the new establishment it does not take more than 30-35 years.
In the first half of the twentieth century, many socialist values have been established and have been popular also.
Nationalization of industries, the redistribution of the land, the participation of the labors, the right of the employment- all these assumptions are not very old.
In India before 1930, these were not in the news.
In 20-25 years, these matters became popular and became the government policy.
The farmer class is an eternal class because cultivation is inevitable for the human society and for this work only farmers could be believed.
Because business class is adopting cultivation just for benefit , the day he will get the business which will give more benefit , the same day he will quit the cultivation.
Thus, cultivation must be unprofessional, but should be beneficial, hence zest to cultivate should not end.
Eventually, why socialism and communism had become this much popular, and suddenly why did it become this much unfaithful?
Because , socialism based on Marxism had been agrounded on capitalism and centralization.
Where ever it was followed, there it started to create regional inequality, the inequality of the village-town.
To hide these inequalities the need of the dictatorship never finished.
Marxists has forecasted the crisis of the capitalism repeatedly, but every time, capitalistic nations overcome from those crises.
It used to seem from that capitalism can face every crisis.
Now it is not going to happen.
Now every country is becoming capitalistic.
India, Republic of the Soviet Union, all the countries of the Eastern Europe- All have become capitalistic.
In all these countries, in two-three decades crises are going to come, capitalism will not be able to face those.
The real crisis of the capitalism is not the lack of the spending capacity of the factory labors, like how communists have been wishing; but the real crisis of the capitalism is the lack of the capital.
This capital is the production of exploitation.
From the fall of the communism, this process has got the immediate shock, because capitalism has become contesantless.
Its alternative is not seen by the people.
But in the long term thought this will be seen that from the fall of the communism this process will become rapid, because communism is a disguised form of the capitalist production system.
Now in all these countries, the bare capitalism is being examined.
First time, at the big level and in all the important countries the pure capitalism is being used, in that there is no support of the outer colonies.
To get the conquest on the coming new turn, Indian farmers will have to prepare from now itself.
Since this preparation will be the preparation for an era-change , which is not less important than any great revolution , it is the need for the Indian farmers that they adopt the broad tactics.
Keeping front the alternative economic policy to oppose strongly the ' new economic policy ' will be the first step of the farmer politics.
The special request of the multinational companies has been emerged in the agriculture of the third world and agriculture-business.
To exploit the water, forest, minerals, etc. natural resources they have innovated the effective technology.
Showing this technology they want to do the such uses of Indian agriculture land, forest and water resources from which they will get the benefit, their own country will get the money and our natural resources will be finished.
It is not my claim at all that in comparison of the intellectuals of the independent India political leaders have served the nation in the better way.
Both have misdirected the people of the country and disregarded their duty.
When I make such criticisms, then my complaint is with the ideological groups and divisions.
Any department or group of the education has not given any important contribution for the development of the people.
Here our connection is with the social sciences.
In this field just two fields are remarkable: Liberal and Marxist.
In the intellect field of India there are no New-Marxist groups which are free from the communist parties.
Hence, I like to say Indian Communist intellectuals to the Marxist intellectuals.
But to save from the unnecessary complexity I am using the word ' Marxism '.
Any thought conducts society by the disciplined processes- by thought processed, through the medium of artifacts and by running the philosophical debates.
The any second stream of the idea does not emerge due to the joint monopoly of both over the resources of the world's news-broadcast system.
The assumptions which are made of the joint impact of both, which prepare mind in the favor of the status quo.
In India, the arrival of Marxism thoughts happened in those days when due to the impact of the capitalism, modern middle class was stabilizing and nation wanted to free the congress from the grip of the Gandhi.
In the India of 1914 to 1934 (since then Gandhi imposed the creative program over congress to the resignation of Gandhi) the main conflicts which were in the economical thoughts, in that there were ' classical ' thought of the Gandhi one side and the other side there were colonialism, liberalism, and Marxism modern thought.
Since when the festival of the farmer movement has started, two kinds of people raising the question, who don't want that any kind of the movement of the poor would happen.
These people blame of the violence to the movement of the agriculture labors.
Though people are saying that farmer movement is the movement of the rich farmers, hence is retrograde.
Among them, Indira Gandhi, M. G. Ramchandran, big government officers and speakers of the capitalists are there.
It has been seen also that landlord or police, to suppress the labors or Harijans take the help of the farmers.
From this experience the doubt emerges that if the revolutionary farmers get unified, then its labor-opposition will be very strong.
There are big weaknesses in this argument.
The unemployed youth makes the report with the police, they tease the girls.
If they will do the movement against the employment, then will the more pain come to girls?
Today farmer take the support of the police to keep suppressing untouchables, labors; if he will struggle against the police, the government and the administration, then will he suppress more the untouchables, labors?
If the farmer movement is going to run for long then he will cross this first condition and theses demands of ' pardon ' and ' rebate ' will be extrinsic and the real clash will be on this thing that whatever facilities is given to the businessmen and capitalists those should be given to farmers or similar law should be applied on both of them.
If these demands will fit into the mind of the farmers then this movement will be dangerous for the whole capitalist system.
in the country like India the legal equality of the farmer and capitalist will be proved against the capitalistic system , because for the capitalists farmers are such a huge community who after growing the raw material give in cheap and purchase the industrial products on very high price.
In the ratio the labor is bought from the capital in that respect a farmer of the five acre is also an exploiter.
Reason , he is an owner of a small capital of the exploitative system.
If big capitalists were not there, then small capital would not have been the source of the exploitation.
In the land system there will not be big plowes, then the farmer will not be a exploitative class.
But this is a fact that big land owner is leading the small farmer.
When a political movement will start, then we may comment on his class character.
In the camp of the six independent organisations who did the public movements till past 11 to 14 March, an important talk occurred.
The matter of the discussion was the farmer movement and between the agriculture movement how will the abatement and solution of the internal conflict happen?
The leaders of both the movements were arguing.
They decided that the summary of the Bhuvaneshwar communication will be broadcasted for the broad discussion.
Thus, it will be a national debate.
For the conservative and rhetorician leftists yet the problem of the farmers is negligible or inferior.
But in the Russia and China , where successful strategies for the movement had been made , farmers and labors had been given the equal importance like the factory workers.
Lenin and Mao in his principal statements kept assuming the revolutionary power to the factory labor, but in practicality and strategy kept moving with taking along the farmers also.
In fact, on the basis of his behavior he did not do the experiment on his principals or fundamental thoughts and the scientific work of the research.
Before the year 1905 it was the opinion of the Russian communists that it is a waste of the time to go to villages.
But after the movement of the 1905 in the strategy of the Lenin the importance of the farmers had started to increase.
Immediate after the revolution of the year 1917 (in the party congress of 1918) Lenin had strongly advocated this that to fight against the colonalisation and formation of the socialism the coalition of the farmer is inevitable.
' The workers of the factories will revolt on his their own power ' such kind of demonstration may be done by quoting the Marx and Anglas.
But just on the basis of the power of the villager landless labors any communist revolution may occur, claim of it is not contained in any leftist science.
Thus, about the revolutionary role of the organisation of the factory labors of the India (Trade Union) who have doubts in their mind, it becomes necessary for them that they find the support of the other village class anticapitalist power with the landlesse.
Those people who organise the labors they are not aware about the revolutionary role of the farmer organisations.
There are two reasons behind this.
First this that their mentality is of the trade union, not of the revolution.
They have not made any such list yet that to weaken and abolish the present capitalist-socialist system, the support of which classes is needed.
At this time, how many big organisations of the farmers are there in the countries they all are running their movement in the structure of the trade union.
When they will think of the reformation of the villages of the whole India or will like to reform the whole country, when they will try to give their option then would be able to take more positive attitudes toward labors.
The speaker of the Student struggle brigadier, Mr. Priyadarshi has an important pleading that this is an extension of the farmer movement itself.
We will understand this pleading when would see the movements of the agricultural labors and landless which are running since post independence as the movement of the village's problem.
During those days, landlords and big land owners were the main exploiters hence for the freedom of the village people to start the struggle against them was the main issue of the leftist movement.
The Malbari silkworm can be cultivated in various climate conditions and the soil of the broader area.
By adopting the better methods itself the good yielding of the cocoon can be obtained.
But for this, it is essential condition to have a leaf of a better variety which gives more production.
The upbringing of the silk worm happens in five different steps during the larva period.
During larva period it is kept in especially made silkworm rearing shed.
Simultaneously, to obtain the high quality silk, arrangement at the proper time and deep care is taken.
During the whole nourishing period the silkworms are taken care very carefully and for their food the better quality of the mulberry leaf is used.
The formation of the better environment and prevention from the worms and diseases are the necessary conditions in their upbringing.
To provide the favorable conditions there is the need of the rearing house and rearing equipments and instruments separately.
In a year, 5 to 10 crops are nurtured and the life span of every crop is 70-80 days.
The mulberry variety:- V-1 and S-36 are the variety which gives production and are very useful for the silkworm nurturing.
These two varieties provide the nutrients which are very essential for the larva in the silkworm rearing.
The S-36 variety-its leaves are heart shaped thick and shining with the light green color.
In the leaves there is high humidity and in that there are more nutrients.
Every year on an acre about 15 thousands to 18 thousand kilo gram mulberry leaves is obtained.
V-1 Variety- this variety is quite popular in the cultivation which was started in the year 1997.
Leaves are oval shaped, huge sized, thick, deep coloured containing dampness.
In a year, almost 20-24 thousand kilo gram mulberry leaves can be obtained.
Planting method:- the arrangement of the plantation of the tree is done in the two rows where the distance of (90+150 cm) × 90cm or 60cm × 60cm is proper.
Due the presence of space between the double row inter agriculture activity and for the transportation of leaves power tiller may be used.
Through this there is the facility of the drip irrigation.
In every acre, trees can be planted in more number.
Leaves can be taken easily and quickly, which reduce the possibility of the humidity loss.
40 percent labor is saved by shoot harvesting.
Every hectare from the rate of the 8 metric tons, use dungs two times in two years.
For the mulberry K V-1 variety use NPK at the rate of 350:140:140 kilogram per hectare and for the variety of mulberry S-36 at the rate of 300:120:120 kilogramper hectare every year by distributing in five equal parts.
Irrigation: irrigation in the rate of 80 to 120 millimeters in a week.
In the condition when there is the lack of the water farmers can save 40 percent of the water by using drip irrigation.
Hybridized silkworm:- Under the IVLP CSR-2 X CSR-4 and the a double hybrid (Krishna Raja) developed bivoltain hybridized silkworm has been recommended.
Caterpillar rearing:- From the hatching of eggs to reach to the mature stage a silkworm has to pass through the five stages.
The second stage of the worms is called youth stage or catterpillar stage.
Since, this is more sensitive to the adverse circumstances and it has more possibility of being infected hence for the nurturing of youth there is the need to provide especial attention.
Hence, in the youth rearing centers in the controlled circumstances, it should be tried to obtain the nurtured silkworms.
Nurturing in the old age:- the rearing of the old age worms start in the third instar.
These are the worms which eat more leaves.
Rearing center:- the rearing of the mulberry silkworm is a home business completely.
For this there is the need of the temperature between 24-28 degree Celsius the climate of the 70-80 percent humidity.
Thus, to maintain the cheap cool environment the especial attention should be given to the selection of the proper material for the building of the wall and roof, the convergence of the building, building methods, design, etc.
Later, for the keeping of the leaves, youth rearing, mature stage rearing and molting enough space should be there.
Simultaneously, the cleanliness of that place and disease free arrangements also should be proper.
According to the type and quantity of the rearing the size of the rearing house should be there.
For 100 DFL the area of 400 square feet surface may be provided (DFL-disease free laying) , 1DFL=500 larva).
Rearing equipments:- the mature stage silkworms do not bear high temperature, high humidity and minimal air ventilation arrangement.
Hence, to maintain the room temperature at the minimum level there should be two sided air ventilation in the rearing house thus the huge amount of gas which is produced by the sewage released by silkworms can be passed easily.
To cure from the disease:- to keep the rearing house and instruments infection free, it should be cleaned two times.
First time just after the preparation of the preceding crops from the 5 percent bleaching powder and second time the two days before the second crop with 2.5 cenetic (clorinedi-oxide) should be cleaned properly.
Shoot nurturing-an economical solution:- in this method of the sericulture nurturing of the last three stages is done by giving the mulberry shoot instead of a free leaf.
This is the most economical method of the nurturing, from that about 40% of the nurturing labor is saved.
After becoming the number of the silkworm less there is the lack of the spread and infection of the disease.
Just by removing insects and leaves from the process secondary infection reduces.
In the storage and condition of in the bed the better preservation of the leaves.
Nourishment:- start nourishment of the 50-55day old shoots.
Do its cutting in the cool weather of the morning at the height of 3-4feets.
The nourishment of the 60-65 days old shoot should be done with the silkworms of the fifth stage.
The storage of the harvested shoot should be done in the loose vertical position in the environment with cold and humidity, which are covered from the clean, disease free and wet cloths.
For the Bi Voltain Silkworm there is the need of the 460 kilograms in the fourth stage and 2880 kilograms in the fifth stage.
Do not make them eat beige and more ripen leaves.
During every nourishment in the bed distribute the larva in the equal form.
In India there are all of the total 34.43 crore cattles.
Among them, 22.84 crore cow-buffalo, 50 lakh pigs and 34 lakh animals of the horse, donkey, ass and camel family.
Beside them there are 11.49 crore hens also.
The number of the animals of the family of the cow and buffalo, which are found in the India is the 20 percent of the world's estimated 111.5 crore animals.
Even having this many animals, among those about 50% animal of buffalo family, 20% animal of cow family and 16.7% goats are included.
The production of the milk in the India is just 1.19 crore tons.
Here, the average use of the milk per person is just 130 gram per day.
Whereas, this quantity is 741 grams in Switzerland, 637 grams in New Zealand 623 gram in America and 509 grams in England.
This average of the world is 303 gm , in comparison of the other countries the milk production capacity of the Indian animals is very less.
The Indian cow gives average 173 kg in a year.
Whereas , the cow of the Denmark gives average milk 3,710 , of the Switzerland 3 , 250 , of the America 3 , 280 and of the England 2 , 900 kg.
The condition of the other varieties is followed though from perspective of the number of the lambs India has fifth position in the world.
But in that the production of the wool is very less, also the wool obtained from them are mostly of lower quality.
This is with hair and rough and is not good enough to knit the good cloths.
In India the yearly average production of the wool per lamb is just 700 gm, whereas lambs of some foreign breed variety in a year give 5 to 7 kg wool even.
Insofar there is about the meat production the average body weight of the Indian lamb is from 25 to 30 kg, whereas, the foreigner lambs are three times heavier than these.
Insofar there is the matter of the poultry husbandry in comparison of the other country in India on the basis of the population very less hens are reared.
On every 100 persons, 540 in Denmark, 373 in Canada, 286 in America, 179 in England and from 150 to 200 birds are reared in other European countries.
Whereas in India just 26 hens are reared per 100 people.
An Indian hen gives average 60 eggs in the complete year.
Whereas, the average yearly production of the hens of the species White Legharn and Road Ireland of the America are 193 and 212 eggs.
This number of the country is less than the half of the world's average number of the year (130 eggs).
In India this time, 12 eggs per person per year are available.
Whereas, this number is 295 in America, 282 in Canada and 249 in West Germany.
In India, animals are reared in different kind of adverse climate and environmental conditions.
Here the animal husbandry business is in the hands of small farmers, among them maximum farmers adopt it as a supportive occupation with their main occupation agrictulere.
Normal farmer run their living by putting 2-3 animals in the land less than 3 hectare in the small farms, in the some countries of the Europe in the average huddle the number of the animals is more than 30.
Hence, it is clear that having the number of animals so high even, in the economy-system of the country the contribution of the livestock is not according to its number.
11.83% income of the total national income is obtained by the livestocks.
The total anticipated income which is obtained from the animal products in 1960-61 was 1,529.72 crore rupees.
From that, Rupees 988.34 crore from the milk and the products made from the milk, Rupees 120.01 crore from meat and meat products, Rupees 42.8 crore from skin and leather, Rupees 66.91 crore from hens and eggs, Rupees 12.74 crore from wool and hairs, Rupees 262.8 crore from dung and Rupees99.11 crore income had been obtained.
In India, the 18.3 percent of the main income by the agriculture is obtained by the livestocks.
Looking at the such a huge number of the animals this contribution is quite less.
In its comparison this income is 82 % in Denmark , 81% in the Ireland , 79% in Sweden , and 78% in the every country of the England and Norway.
In India there is the cow and buffalo family animals in the huge number.
According to the animal census of the 1961-62 the animals of the cow and buffalo family is 111.5 in the whole world and 22.68 crore in the India (20.35%) but the the production value of the animal-bussiness is not according to this huge number of the animal.
According to the reformed statistic of the statistic department of the administrative secretariate in 1960-61, as the form of the money its anticipated contribution was 1160 crore.
In the rural economy of the India the contribution of the animals is important.
Even today for the agriculture work the mandatory power is gotten from the oxen itself and the main source of the protein in the maximum people's food is milk.
Oxen are used for the tilling, digging, harvesting of the crop, threshing, for irrigation and to transport the agricultural products to the market etc. many works.
Beside that animals make the land fertile by their dung compost and also provide skin and leather.
Hence, in India, cows and oxen have been considered the foundation of the agriculture.
The animal - industry has spread in the whole country in the numerous small units, hence to do its right evaluation is very tough.
In Indian agriculture in the form of animal labor, there is an important contribution of the livingstocks.
The anticipated price of this labor in the agriculture will be 300 to 500 crore rupees.
To increase the fertility of the land from animal almost material of 270 crore rupees is gained.
In Indian animals there is more immunity power against the anavavashti, animal-plague and the diseases due to ticks.
Thus, they have very good value in the foreign market.
Due to this, European cattlemen used Indian cattle (JU animals) to crossbreed their animals.
Hence better animal can take birth.
The ancestor of the Indian native cow-animals have not been discovered yet and their fossils have not been found yet.
The milch animals of India become savage often, rearing of the cow-animals is considered here very prestigious occupation and milk, butter, paneer and etc. materials obtained by them are used by the people of the every class.
According to the animal-census of the 1961, in India, there were 8.04 crore animals of the cattle family for 15.23 crore hectare agriculture land.
51 Crore cows of the age more than three years and 2.423 Crore buffalo had been kept for reproduction and milk-production.
Among them, 2.07 crore cows and 1.25 crore buffalo used to produce milk and the rest were either drained or had not reproduce once even.
During the period of 1961-1966, no any difference occurred in the number of the animals of the cattle family.
During this period, in the number of the animals of the buffalo family has been increased just 32%.
The number of the cattles is 116 in average of the per 100 hectare agricultural area and this is 61 in Punjab, 283 in Maharashtra and Gujarat, 188 in West Bengal, and 162 in Orisa.
There is quite a difference in the physical structure and frame of the cow animals of India.
Due to that reason, they have become compatible to the climates which is found in different parts.
The animals here either make themselves compatible to the local climate and soil , or grow properly there , where they are taken birth and nurtured.
The native and the cows which give less milk is found in Punjab, Rajasthan, Gujarat, some parts of Maharashtra, Tamilnadu, Mysore and eastern part and coastal areas of the Andhra Pradesh.
Thus, in Assam, West Bengal, Odisa and Kerela the low-grade animals are found.
In the mountain area where it rains heavily.
Dr. Kapil is the best doctor of the veterinary hospital.
Daily a lot of ill animals come to him.
Some are suffering from one disease, some are suffering from another disease.
Looking at such animals he feels very sorry.
Simultaneously, he feels pity on the owners of these animals.
One day a very painful event occurred.
A buffalo died in the campus of the hospital.
His master started to cry badly like any relative of his has passed away.
Doctor Sahab went near to him and consoled him.
Asked the reason of his grief.
He told that he is a poor farmer.
From that the needs of the family was not met.
By doing labor he used to run his house.
By taking debt, he had bought this buffalo so it will be easy to run the family expenditure by selling the milk of the buffalo.
Doctor sahab felt very sorry after listening the inecdote of the farmer.
At that time in front of his eyes the face of such lakh helpless farmers and animal owners were come.
He decided in his mind itself that going village to village, he will give the essential information related to animal-husbandry.
This news was conveyed by the advertisement in nearby villages and the city that the doctor Kapil of the government hospital will give different information about the animal husbandry in the school of the village.
Many farmers from the nearby villages and those who run the oxcart in the city and dairy owners came and sit in the school before the arrival of the doctor sahab.
You all know this, that cow, ox, buffalo etc. animals are how important for you people.
These animals are the best medium for the cultivation of the farmers.
The support of the living of many unemployeds.
Actually , for your growth it is necessary that your animals are healthy , are strong.
If your animals will be healthy, then more work could be taken from them.
Milch animals will give more milk.
No money will have to spend on their sickness.
For their treatment they will not have to wander here and there.
Hence, I will tell you few such things, from that your animal could be prevented from the disease.
Among you all, perhaps very few people would be knowing that a huge reason for the disease of the animal is the small and dirty shelter of the animals (place to live).
Always the shelter of the animals should be built in the way that they should not have any kind of problem.
If one-two animals are there, their shelter can not be arranged separately, then they should be kept in the corner room of the house.
The path to go and come for animals should be one side, thus the whole house would not get dirty from their coming-going.
If there are 8-10 animals or more than this, then their shelter for them should be away from the home.
If there would be pasture and pond also near the cattle house, then it is very good.
But it is not good to make cattle-shed near the dirty drainage.
The place where animals stay whether is cemented of earthen- in that there should be arrangement of air, sun, light and clean water.
According to the place the facet of the cattle shed may be kept in two directions.
One to the east-west, and another to the north-south.
Having facet toward east-west, the animals remain prevented from the hot wind in summer and from cold wave in the winter.
From the north-south facet sun remains for long time in the cattle-shed.
The floor and walls remain dry.
In fact, whatever the facet would of the cattle-shelter, there should be proper sun, air and light in that.
The height of four feet is appropriate for the four walls of the cattle shed.
Inside the four walls there should be high, dense and shady trees.
Plant the trees which leaves does not harm animals.
There should be room to prevent animals from deep cold, hot and rain.
In that for every animal there should be 8 feet long and 6 feet broad place.
By making the different pattern its polish could be reduced.
The floor made of bricks and cement is also good.
Ash or sandy soil should be spread on the earthen floor, ash or soil absorbs the urine of the animal and the sitting place of the animal does not become wet.
This ass should be put daily morning in the pit of the compost, thus any kind of dirtiness did not remain in the animal shed.
The height of the room of the animals should be ten to fifteen foot.
Walls are either earthen or cemented, but there should not have whole and pit in those.
In these pits there is fear to emerge many kinds of poisonous animals, animal could die if they bite.
Interrupting meanwhile a farmer said, Doctor Sahab, is it necessary to have a window or ventilation in the cattle sheds?
There is life in animals also.
They also have the same need of sun, air and light to be healthy how much we all need.
In sun and light, bacteria of any kind of the disease can not grow.
Thus, how much the arrangement for pure air to come in and impure air to go out will be there, the suffocation will be that much less.
Animals remain happy in the pure and fresh air.
Any kind of the disease cannot happen to them.
Thus, it is necessary to have windows and ventilation in the cattle sheds.
For every animal there must be a window in the room.
Looking at the length and width of the room there should be many ventilation in the room.
If fix the iron net in the ventilation then it is good.
In the very cold weather, windows are closed during day and night and ventilations remain open.
Through this, fresh air keep on coming to the room and cold waves does not touch animals also.
If the roof of the animal-shed can be made cemented, then it is good.
Otherwise sheets of the cement or roof of the tiles is good.
Never use tin sheets as the form of roof , because tin roof becomes more hot in the sun and very cold during the night of the cold.
Due to this there is fear that animal will feel more hot during hot weather and cold during cold weather.
If the cattle shed is earthen then wall must be whitewashed two-three times in a year.
Once before the rain, it is necessary to whitewash.
We also want to know this, that should the arrangement of feeding the animals fodder be in that room or some where else?
Actually matter is this that if you have enough space , then arrangement to feed the animal should be some where else.
In place of the fodder feeding, it could be managed by putting thatch also.
But it is necessary to be clean the place of the feeding fodder.
Due to having the number of animals more the arrangement of their food has to be done in two rows.
If animals have to be standing in a line, then there is a manger toward the front.
The back wall of the manger would be little high and front wall would be low, thus wile washing the manger water can drain and animal can eat fodder comfortably.
Manger should be made of the bricks and cement.
The place near the manger to stand the animals and the backside drainage , both should be cemented , clearly sloped , thus can be cleaned easily by washing.
The distance between the manger and drainage should be at least five and a half foot.
The urine and dung lying on the floor near the manger should be carried to the pit of the compost by washing and through the drainage.
Behind the drainage there should be the path of four and four and a half foot to bring the fodder etc. and for animals to go.
To tie the animals instead of the rope, iron chains or neck-band should be used.
Because chains and neck-bands could be cleaned by washing it, not to the ropes.
While tieing animals in front of the manger, every two animals should be tied in the seperate parts.
For this after every two animals the iron rods or the wire without prickles or the strong sticks of the wood should be put after every two animals.
While feeding the fodder, cows, buffalos, oxen should be kept separate.
If the tap water can be carried to the animal shed, then taps should be fixed in every manger.
Dactor Sahab said further , if animals are more than the number of eight-ten , then animals will have to be tied in two rows.
In one way, keeping the animals face opposite, second way, putting the animals' tail opposite.
The way to keep the animals facing each other is cheap, but not good.
Because in this method, while feeding the animals they are stood on both sides of the manger.
Thus, at the time of eating fodder the breath of an animal go to the body of another animal.
In such situation, if any animal will have the infectious disease then it may spread quickly in another animal and then in every animal.
In this method, the other demerit is this that while eating the fodder animals fight among them.
In these fights-quarrels fast-paced animals may injure innocent animals by their horns.
The third drawback of this method is this, that it is very problematic to put the fodder to the animals.
Hence, till how extent it is possible, animals should be tied facing each others tail.
To put the fodder in front of the both mangers itself the four foot path is made.
From a broad canal itself the urine and dungs of the animals of both sides is carried to the pit of the compost.
It is necessary to clean the feeding place at least twice in a day.
The small calves of the cow and buffalo should be given fodder etc. by tying them separate from the big animals.
Pregnant cow and buffalo should be kept separate also.
Not just this, the animals about to die and sick animals also should have a separate place to live and eat.
If there are more animals in the cattle shed and a bull has also been reared in that, than with the staying-eating place for bull a separate big courtyard should be there also.
While finishing today's meeting Dr. Kapil said , I finish today's meeting just saying this that while making arrangements for your animals always take care of your animals' complete comfort.
Its good result will come itself in front of you.
Today was the second day of the conference.
At the right time Doctor Sahab came and started to say, very few people among you would be knowing that in comparison of the other countries our animals are very weak.
They give less milk and also have less power to work.
Most of the animals are always lazy or sick.
This is a biggest reason for this, that at our place animals are not given nutritious food.
Others who are rich, they don't have knowledge that animals will be healthy from how much and which kind of food.
The nutritious diet is that , in which vitamin , protein , minerals , fat , carbohydrate , fibers and water should be in proper quantity.
All these are the parts of the animal diet , are elements , are portions.
In the fodder-grains, all these are in some extra amount.
The vitamins are very essential for animals in every way.
They prevent animals from many kinds of diseases.
It helps very much to increase the sight of the eyes and to maintain the strength of the teeth.
The pregnant cows-buffalos which give milk gets huge help from vitamins.
Among these vitamins' A ' and ' D ' is very essential for animals.
Vitamin ' A ' is found in the green grass.
Hence, it is considered very beneficial to feed animals green fodder and green grass, vitamin ' D ' is found in the sunlight.
Hence, to put animals in the open and the places with light is considered good for the health.
Work to make the body strong is done by the protein.
By doing the hard work the body of the animals which does rub down and break, work to fulfill that is of protein.
For the milch and pregnant cows-buffalos the fodder with protein is very essential.
The main agricultural products can be grouped broadly into food, fiber, fuel, raw material, pharmacuticals and stirrings.
Simultaneously, there is a series of decorating or foreign products also.
What is climate- climate is made up of two words water and air.
In Urdu it is called Abhawa.
' Jal ' or ' Aab ' means water and the meaning of ' Vayu ' or ' Hawa ' is obviously air.
That is to say that the word climate is made from the combination of air and water.
Water here refers to rains and the air refers to the air that affects the environment surrounding us.
Sometimes it generates moisture around us and sometimes it generates heat.
Rain also does somewhat a similar work.
This concludes that climate is an object that gives us heat and cool.
We experience both of them ourselves.
But there are such changes also which we experience on our own.
And there are some changes which we do not feel.
All such things are called climate.
Thus the combined impact of the heat, cold, moisture and rains of any place is called climate.
There is an integral relationship between climate and agriculture.
The success and failure of crops depend on this.
Sudden change in climate sometimes leads to great loss in agriculture.
There is a terror of plants getting affected by diseases if the weather during winters remain cloudy continuously for 3-4 days.
It mostly catches Gerui disease, consequently the growth of plant retards.
Extremely cold weather and sudden rainfall destroys crop.
This is to say that climate affects agriculture right from the plowing , sowing , weeding , irrigation , harvesting till the time it reaches home.
Hence it is essential for a successful farmer to begin his work after identifying the climate.
If there are no clouds in the sky then the plants start turning yellow and finally dry.
The crops can tolerate a fixed amount of moisture.
If this moisture suddenly stops and there is no amount of water in the plants then they stop food formation process.
The roots become dry, break and the crop gets destroyed.
The crop growth also stops when the moisture content is more.
The downfall in temperature affects the plant leaves more.
Their veins stop working.
The crops are sown according to the seasons.
Climatic knowledge during those seasons is essential.
There are 6 seasons.
Each of them lasts for two months.
Our year begins from Chaitra, when winter is on the verge of ending and summer begins.
These seasons can be easily identified in the plains of our country.
But there are some parts of this country which are extremely chilly for eight months and some are hot for eight months.
Some have year round rainfall up to 500 inches and places like Rajputana do not even have 5 inches average rainfall.
Our country is very large, tropic of cancer passes through it, it has ocean on three sides and it falls on the way of monsoon winds.
Hence the climate here varies at different places.
The reason is that slanting Sun rays fall on tropic of Cancer.
The Sun shines overhead for four months a year.
