It increases the heat during these days but when the Sun enters tropic of Capricorn, the heat impact becomes very less and the weather becomes cool.
The place which will be more close to tropical line will be more hot and less cold and will get heavy rainfall.
But as we go away from the tropical line the situation will be opposite.
That is to say the climate will be more cold , less hot with average rainfall.
And even if we reach the poles there will be year round cold, and sometimes snowfall will also occur.
The Sun will be rarely visible.
If the place falls on the way of monsoon winds then rainfall is possible there but if it doesn't fall there then the place becomes barren and deserted.
Rajputana neither falls on the monsoon arising from Bay of Bengal nor Arabian Sea.
Consequently it remains dry.
Similar climate in plains is essential.
Our country is situated between 8 degree and 30 degree northern latitude.
From this point of view our climate should be warm but this is not the situation.
The reason is the soil structure of this place.
Because of different structure of soil, the climate of different places is different.
Yes, the climatic conditions of plains is definitely similar.
If the crops get adequate water on appropriate time then the production is good.
But generally it is seen that there is always a fury of rains all the times in the form of heavy rainfall, less rainfall and untimely rainfall.
It damages a lot of crop.
These three things are harmful for agriculture.
During rainy season due to heavy rainfall the crop get washed away or become rotten.
sometimes it becomes difficult to resolve the problem of seeds.
The fury of drought is all the more dreadful.
The leaves generally get affected by chilly weather and it stops the internal action of leaves.
Because of this the leaves cannot make their food and gradually start drying.
Because of extreme chilly weather the crops sometimes bear big losses.
With the help of thermometer temperature calculator we can ascertain chilly weather while before and protect the crops using appropriate measures.
If the crops are irrigated before the arrival of winters then the crops remain unaffected.
Its impact can be forbidden up to a certain extent by ejecting smoke around the farm during winters.
Rain Gauge - It is a hollow instrument.
It has a cone from where rain water enters.
This cone is attached to a glass bottle.
Water gets collected in the bottle through the cone.
The water of the glass is measured with a measuring device.
This instrument is kept in an open place during rainfall so the atmospheric rain directly enters into it.
The water should at least be measured once in every 24 hour.
Such rains are measured in inches.
For example if there 2 inches of water in a measuring glass then the rainfall that day will be called 2 inches only.
Sometimes rainfall occurs at the end of February or first week of March.
It leads to the rotting of collected grains in farms.
The seeds catches a kind of black spot which reduces its rate in market and the taste also becomes bitter.
Thus grains are greatly affected by rains until they reach home.
When there are sudden rains at the end of May after Rabi harvesting they adequately help in summer plowing.
Hence it is clear that rain division is more significant for cultivation than the amount of rainfall.
Untimely rains puts bad impact on crops and sometimes lead to scarcity but timely rains can make the farmers rich.
Firstly all the insects originate in the form of eggs by their parent insect.
Different insects have different kinds of eggs.
These eggs are round, long, triangular etc.
Some eggs are yellow and some are white.
This is to say that eggs have several forms and colors.
Consequently every egg gives rise to long , with many joints , crawling living being which is called kirauna , bhudila , ilat or sunda.
The time of egg hatching is also different.
But it is essential to know that eggs hatch quickly in summers.
Egg hatching delays with increasing cold.
Eggs do not eat nor drink anything but the ' insects that comes out start running here and there in search of food.
These insects eat the soft stem propagation , leaves and fruits when they get time.
You know ' bhalu sunde '.
It eats the leaves of pigeon pea, kidney bean and urad.
The green insect which is found on the leaves of pumpkin, gourd and nenua eats its leaves.
You will be amazed to know that very soon these insects destroy the entire crop.
That is why the form " Sunda " of insects is very furious.
These insects are responsible for destroying your crops.
The gram insects eat the stems of growing plants and destroy the entire crop overnight.
Every insect adds to the generation growth after copulation.
Majority of the male insects die after copulation.
The female insects also face the similar situation.
Majority of the the female insects die because of laying innumerable eggs.
But as opposite to this , queen termite about whom you will learn later lives for 7-8 years giving 70000-80000 eggs everyday.
The entire world is aware of termite insect.
It is prevalent in entire world as compared to other regional insects.
The origin of this insect is also very old.
There is a story of a termite catching a sage's body in an Indian religious book.
Thus on this basis the age of the insects and the harmful effects that they could have done can be estimated.
Various remedies to curb them are being considered everywhere in the world.
Their attack is seen more on the objects made from wood, chevron, bamboo etc.
There are four kinds of termites in a single burrow.
The termites that destroy the things are called labor termites.
Every labor termite is 1/4th inches tall and light yellow-golden in color.
Eating things and making burrows in soil, collecting soil and building houses outside ground and carrying new egg termites from one place to another is the job of these labor termites.
9-10 millions of termites stay in every burrow and there is a place which is called state home.
The king and queen termite stay in this state home.
The queen termite keeps the new eggs in an orchard near labor termite state home.
This orchard is the growth place for eggs.
It has fungal growth and which is eaten by the new termites coming out of the eggs.
The state home and orchard also has some protecting termites whose work is to protect.
Only seven kinds of tiddi insects in the world have been known so far.
Amongst them India alone has three kinds of tiddis.
These tiddis are not only found in India but also in middle east and central Africa.
The most devastating of these three of tiddis is the one which is called desert tiddi.
In English this insect is called Shistosarka-grigeria.
In India these tiddis are found in the desert of Sindh and Rajasthan.
Outside India they develop and grow in Balochistan etc. also.
The eggs of tiddis are very small yellow and brown in color like rice.
During summers these eggs hatch within 12-14 days.
But during winters they take at least 25-26 days in hatching.
Our government has made many arrangements considering tiddis attack as national difficulty.
An institution has been opened under the supervision of every district officer whose officers keep a complete information about tiddis attack.
Thus the information regarding the tiddis attack should be provided to the nearby government officer.
The action should be quickly taken after the information.
These officers will follow the remedies which I have told you before.
But this does not mean that all the works will be done by the government officers.
You should help them while using every possible remedy.
We believe that controlling tiddi attack is a government affair but all the people of the village should give physical, psychological and monetary help.
Arrange for 10 ser water , 25 ser paddy straw, sodium silicate and 3 ser jaggery.
Now mix a little water into it and make a solution.
Knead the entire hay with this jaggery juice.
Mix ' sodium flausilicate ' in this kneaded thing.
The mixture thus prepared should be neither too dry nor tough or loose.
Then this mixture should be put very early morning into the farm.
This experiment kills majority of the insects.
12-14 ser mixture is adequate for bigha land.
Sodium flausilicate with a moon trademark can be bought from shops selling manure.
Sodium flousilicate is a poison.
Hence it should be used carefully.
Like sugarcane insects(sunda) another insect(sunda)attacks millet, maize and sorghum.
It is also called Kunsaa.
This insect(sunda) always reaches wherever maize, millet and sorghum is grown in India.
There is no dearth of these insects outside India in Korea, Japan and Shyam and Brahma.
After reaching the plants these insects(sundas) first eat the leaves and then when they get some energy , they make holes in the stems and enter into them.
Because of their destructive attack , the transfer of nutrients from the soil to the plants and its distribution in all the parts stop.
As a result plant growth retards.
After getting entire food, the insects(sundas) become more powerful in 15-25 days.
They are around one inch long and yellowish brown in color.
Their head is black and there are four stripes on the body from front to back.
The insect(sunda) is fully mature in this stage.
Thus after getting entire food the insects(sundas)turn into pupa inside the same dead center.
The sunda of this insect is a harmful organism for tobacco.
Their attack is very intense and destructive.
Sometimes it seems as if a large number of these insects(sundas) have surrounded plants.
Apart from tobacco these insects (sundas) attack pigeon pea, cauliflower, potatoes, maize and sweet potatoes.
But amongst all these, the intensity of attack of these insects(sundas) is the most on tobacco.
That is why this sunda is called tobacco sunda(insect).
The same sundas(insects) attack andi or rendi plants.
Tobacco sundas(insects) are around 1.5 inches long and brownish red in colour.
Their head portion is black in color.
It walks during night.
After eating , the healthy sunda(insect) crawls from the plant and falls on to the ground and spends 2-3 weeks at some place there by turning into pupa.
This duration can increase during winters.
Hence pupa form can last for around a month.
Pupa cover ruptures and a insect which is like its ancestors in structure and color, comes out of it.
Some time later the insect also starts contributing in offspring growth.
There are several measures of protecting paddy from perfumed insects.
When the paddy gets fluid in the villages then farmer enters the farm and shakes the paddy plants from both his hands.
This process is known as mangiyana.
Mangiyana word is made up of mang.
The way the hairs are turned on either side for setting hair, likewise the paddy plants are also turned on either sides in farm.
The farmers believe that insect enemies come out with this action and it actually happens.
But this success is momentary.
These insects might go out for sometime but they come back to the field.
Hence " Mangiyana " is not a successful measure.
Like the insect (sunda) of sorghum, millet and sugarcane there is a sunda(insect) that attacks paddy and it eats the inner middle portion of the stem.
As a result of this attack , ' dead centers ' originate.
When these sundas(insects) simply attack baby plants they become dry and fall of ground but if the mature plants are attacked then they bear weak flowers and seeds.
The fibers turn white in color.
This insect is a destructive enemy for entire paddy producing region of Asia.
You will be amazed to know that due to the destructive attack of this insect, India alone has to bear a loss of 1 billion every year because they are found in all the paddy growing regions of India.
They are found in abundance in south India.
They reach the lower portion of the stem and eat the inside element by making holes in it.
Consequently the insects(sundas) climb up the stem and also become powerful.
They get the entire food in 15-16 days itself.
During this stage they make light yellow holes to come out but they do not come out at this point of time.
The sundas (insects) close these hole through the small particles inside stem.
Buy calcium arsenate from the market and mix ash or lime into it and sprinkle them on the paddy plants before sunset.
Because of this experiment the sundas(insects) that come out at night will begin to die as will touch the plants.
While doing this experiment one should be careful that there are no possibilities of storms and rains for 10-12 hours otherwise both hard work and cost incurred will be wasted.
Its mouth has vessels and both the wings are on the other side of the body and bent like roof.
The new born insects are somewhat different from adult insects.
Because the back portion of its body has two tails.
New born and adult insects suck leaf juice from their needle like mouth.
sugarcane crops are harvested from January till March.
Thus these insects jump and enter the wheat, millet etc. or weeds and other grasses in order to eat their food.
These plants usually lasts till March and April.
As these grasses start drying, the sowing of sugarcane begins.
These insects jump on the newer leaves as the new sugarcane grows.
Thus they work round the year.
These insects attack broad and juicy leaves.
Hence their attack is more successful on the sugarcane whose leaves are broad and juicy.
White fly is one of the great sugarcane destroying insect.
Like pyrilla this insect also attacks sugarcane leaves.
Because of a needle like mouth these insects keep sucking the juice of sugarcane leaves.
As a result of their attack the leaves become weak.
Because of the leaves becoming weak the other organs of the plant cannot function properly.
Hence the juice also reduces.
The juice which is left also becomes tasteless.
Their harmful attack is seen in almost all the sugarcane producing regions of India.
The insects are called by different names in different regions.
In Uttar Pradesh it is called Lahi, white machi in some parts of Bihar and Lahi in many other regions also.
In Gujarat it is called Papti.
Manhu insect is also called Lahi.
There are two horn like tubes on the upper back portion of the body of this insect.
This is the peculiar identification of this insect.
Its mouth is build in such a way not to cut and eat but to suck the plant juice.
Thus it remains attached to the mouth of the plant and peacefully sucks the juice.
It looks simple but it very dangerous when it attacks.
The people who resemble this nature is called Manhu.
Manhu insects are both with and without wings.
Apart from the stem cutting sundas of gram there is an insect which enters the gram twigs and attacks growing gram.
They are called simple gram insect (sunda).
It is not only popular for its destructive attack in India but in entire world.
Apart from gram they attack tomatoes, tobacco and maize etc. in favorable conditions.
It becomes cotton insect(sunda) in America and causes loss worth around 120 million dollar.
The mature sunda is 2 inches long and greenish-brown in color.
Further there are some incomplete stripes on its body from front to back.
The insects that harm pea leaves are generally in the form of flies.
But yes, there length and breath is less than simple fly.
These insects are seen flying in pea farms during January-February.
After copulation, the female insects lay 300-400 eggs in its leaves by making holes.
These eggs hatch in 7-8 days.
The Sundas that come out on its hatching are very dangerous because these sundas(insects) eat the upper portion of the leaves for their food.
As a result of this process white brown lines are build on entire leaves.
Consequently the leaves start drying and the growth of plants stops.
It bears less fruits and the impact is seen on production.
There is a insect like butterfly whose width along with wings is half inches and the color is brown.
There are brown color patches on its wings which are more on the joints of other wing.
This insect comes out only during night and gets attracted towards light but hides itself and spends time during day.
These insects are seen flying before rains and even before that during May-June.
During this stage these insects do not harm the crop themselves.
These insects lay eggs on soft leaves, new stems, buds and flowers during favorable environment.
These eggs hatch within 8-10 days.
The sundas(insects)that come out on its hatching are quite destructive.
The other sundas(insects) that harm cotton flower and fibers are called patchy sunda(insects) or cotton sunda.
This sunda is a great destructive enemy of cotton.
Like sundas they begin the attack on new stems, leaves and maturing cotton fruits.
In India it leads to the loss of 25-45 % cotton every year.
It wastes several billion Indian rupees.
This insect not only attacks cotton but other plants of cotton species also such as lady's finger etc.
The fury of this sunda(insect) is more in middle India, south India and Uttar Pradesh.
The third enemy of cotton is the sunda(insect) which attacks the leaves and eat and curl the green element.
The growth of the plants gets affected by their attack.
Thus the production decreases.
This sunda is also called leaf breaking sunda(insect).
This sunda is 1.25 inches long and grey in color.
Every red insect is 0.75 inches long.
Their legs and mouth are long, and the mouth sucks juice.
The long mouth of the insect sticks to its stomach when it takes rest.
The head and some part of the back portion of this insect is dark black in color.
The wings are not so red but somewhat orangish yellow in color.
The lower portion of the other half of the wings are somewhat black.
There is also a black patch on the other wings.
Jasid insect is one of the harmful cotton insects.
It becomes green during rainy season but somewhat reddish yellow in winters.
Both the wings hang on both the sides of the body like a slope.
There is a black spot on every front wing.
Apart from the adult jasid insects their wingless new born insects also suck the juice on the lower surface of the cotton leaves.
These new born insects are always green or light green and shiny.
Apart from cotton these insects attack lady's finger , potatoes and brinjal.
The leaves become dry because of their attack, hence the plants become weak.
That is why plants are unable to bear more fruits and flowers.
The adult black insects are seen more during July-November.
Every adult insect is somewhat bigger than common house fly.
The black insect is more long than wide.
The head is brownish black, the wings are brown and the other parts of the body like back etc, are golden yellow in color.
The insect is also called Jhanjha.
The insect is seen more in north India.
Like black insect, Jhanjha insect also harms radish, cabbage, cauliflower and mustard plants etc.
The structure of the mouth of this insect is peculiar.
This insect does not cut and eat the leaves but sucks the green element of leaves through its sharp sucking mouth.
The plants lack the power of building food because of absence of green element, as a result the leaves become dry and turn yellow.
Hence the plant growth retards.
The Jhanjha insects are seen more during October till March.
In favorable conditions after copulation, the Jhanjha female insect separately lays eggs on the leaves of above mentioned plant.
The female insect dies after laying eggs.
The eggs hatch in 6-8 days.
On hatching the eggs produce the new born jhanjhas that resemble their ancestors.
These jhanjha babies attack the leaves and keep sucking their juice.
Sometimes they are seen in groups on a branch or leaves.
Small jhanjha kids attain maturity in 20-25 or 30 days and engage in offspring growth through copulation process.
As a result 4-5 generations are produced in a year.
Majority of the brinjal is produced in our country during October-February as per the weather.
Apart from the taste of consumers the farmers who grow them also get economic benefits.
To speak the truth, the farmers do not get satisfying benefits because the brinjal plants catches several kinds of insects and destroys it.
Some of the insects attack brinjal, fruits, some attack its stem and there are some which attack its leaves.
The insects that destroy brinjal enter in the frontal portion of brinjal and eat the inner stem portion thereby making it worthless.
As a result the frontal part becomes loose.
If you see that you will get a hole and excreta of an insect along with that at some place.
If the hole is big one should assume that the insect has left the place after eating.
Therefore you should cut and burn 4-5 inches part down from that hole.
If you do not do it then almost some part of all the plants will become loose and the crop will die.
Potato is one of the major vegetables.
Like wheat and barley potatoes also contain more of starch.
That is why potatoes keep a special place in our everyday meal along with other edible items.
Its use everyday saves more grains.
Thus during this crisis period of grains, essential edible item like potatoes should be saved from the attack of external diseases and insects.
A great amount of potatoes get rotten every year not only in India but at other places of the world also.
Because of this humans have to face a big economic and food related loss.
This destructive potato insect in thin but 0.5-0.75 inches in length, somewhat whitish Yellow and brown in color.
The other pair of the wings are different from the former wings.
The other wings are dark and the former wings are light in color.
There are hairs on the edges of former wings.
After attaining maturity the female insect does copulation and lays 70-80 eggs somewhat long and brown in color on the the potatoes kept in granaries.
The eggs are scattered.
The sundas that come out after egg hatching roam here and there to destroy the potatoes and make holes in the potatoes and satisfy there hunger.
This process makes underpass in potatoes which leads to other diseases in potatoes.
The potatoes get destroyed after rotting.
They start giving bad odour.
We clean the sacks or barn when rice or wheat gets infected by woodworm.
You also know that these grains gets infected by a insect that is called weevil or woodworm.
A similar kind of worm harms sweet potatoes also.
The mouth portion of this insect is long which is called thuthun.
By seeing the Hindu Arsha epics of ancient history we get to know that paddy was cultivated in this country since its creation and the grains were not brought from other countries and sown here.
The beginner place of its production is this country only.
The foreigners have taken it from this country and propagated at their place.
It was fertile before cultivation began as it grows even today near ponds with the names phasai and vattini and since it is automatically fertile it is called Palhar, This proves that human life must have been dependent only on flesh and fruits, forest, wild fruits etc. and paddy must have been used for food during that time.
It is considered so pious amongst Hindus that during all the Pujas in temples and all the auspicious occasions rice is used as " Akshat ".
The " body donation " ritual during agnihotra, shradh and tarpan involves its use.
Apart from India paddy is grown in abundance in China, Japan, Kashmir, Afghanistan, Burma etc. countries and they are also consumed more as compared to other food grains in these countries.
The area under paddy cultivation in our country is around five billion acre which means 1/4th of all the area covered under cultivation is paddy.
If we calculate wheat then it is grown in around 2.5 billion acre land in the entire country which is the double of paddy.
Though the major meal of humans in entire West Bengal, Bihar, Burma, and south India is rice.
According to Darwin the food grain which is grown in abundance gets the opportunity to spread in that expanded area only.
And the varieties are also that many.
Therefore different paddys are identified on the basis of species, qualities, process and productiveness.
Most of them are identified on the basis of color, aroma, size and qualities.
For example take Varahi kamch and vyaghri, Varahi fruit(ratatalu) is roughly the size of a varah( pig), vyaghri(rusah)- the flowers of these trees after flowering look like teeth of light.
Similarly paddy species also have names.
They are basmati, bhantaphul, phulpiyasa,ranikajar, kanak jeera,shyamamghata, badshah pasand and hansraj etc.
Some of these species are described.
Bhantaphul is blue in color.
The plants are 3-4 feet long.
They are called bhantaphhol because they have aroma and color like brinjal flowers.
They grow in abundance in loamy soil.
Old cow dung manure is beneficial for this.
It needs less irrigation as compared to other paddys and their crop takes 2-3 weeks more time than other crops.
Its rice is used to make Pulao, It has royal qualities.
There are less breakage when the rice is processed using machines , the quality of the rice increases with its age and a one year old rice becomes more aromatic and tasty.
Its aroma spreads till far away the farm during maturing, The rate of the rice could be 8-12 rupees/quintal.
15 seeds are put in one acre of farm.
Their thin stripes like kajal in the eyes of a queen and paddy with black stripes, these symptoms do not resemble bhanta flower, Ramkajra should also be understood in a similar way that there is a thick kunari paddy which contains thick black stripes.
Shyamghata- This paddy is more black than other paddys.
The mature plants of the farm look like clouds and that is why they are called Shyamghata.
The plant is 2-2.5 hand long that it is 3-4 feet long.
When the rains are over and some clouds are left then its greenery looks very attractive and beautiful.
The rice is soft and small which breaks on beating.
Therefore it is not fit for making pulao and becomes quite white when become older.
When we think what is the prime time to sow paddy then time difference also occurs because of their varieties, For example kuanri paddy is sown during the beginning of rains on 2nd June.
Katiki paddy is sown in Ashadh(June) and harvested in the month of Katik (October).
Such as Basmati and Amghod.
The sowing of Aghani paddy also begin with the arrivals of rains, they are sown in Ashadh and again its saplings are planted during July and August when the farm is flooded with water and the crop becomes mature during Agahn(November).
Bhantaful and Hiranjan are cultivated here.
There are sown in June(Ashadh) as the rains begin and harvested in the month of savan and bhado.
A variety of Jethi paddy is also found which is found in abundance near the areas of Balia district.
They are called Jaisariya, The seeds of of this paddy are sprinkled in the month of Fagun(March and February).
They are considered pious by the Hindus used like fruits and they become mature till the month of Katik, They are called Tinni and Pasai.
If there are so many grasses in the young paddy then they need to be looked for weeds 4-5 times.
There is a grass plant which resembles paddy plant and is called Danwar needs to be put out.
Because the paddy sucks a lot of edible elements from manure and land and becomes more strong than the paddy and makes them weak.
Paddy plants become weak therefore weeds are not put out from Aghani paddy, A grass which is called Narai needs to be put out of some farms, these grasses are mostly found in Aghani and sown paddy.
Gandi or Gandi are very foul smelling flies that is why they are called gandi.
Such as the mosquitoes stuck to the bodies of animals and human and suck their blood, likewise this fly sucks the element from which rice originates.
The plants are not left with a single grain of rice.
Hundreds acres of farm get destroyed because of this insect.
There are no major measures of keeping away these flies.
They burn fire near the farms at night where so several flies come and get burnt.
Agricultural department office has come up with another measure these days where a 12 feet long, 3 feet wide and 84 inch net should be made, A single net carries 30 feet sackcloth.
They are called Tandul in Sanskrit, Viracch in Persian, Ursasman in Arabic, Karajj in Turani and rozi in Suriani language, In more than half part of India human life is dependent on rice.
No matter whether they are poor or rich everybody eats rice with interest, Older rice are of best quality.
That is why it is a best valuable food.
Greek doctors believe that apart from being tasty rice satisfies hunger, gives obesity to the body, cures intestinal wounds, excessive bleeding, stomach ailments.
They are considered naturally warm(hot)& dry and cold and dry by different people.
Rice warms those with warm nature and cools those with cold nature.
The government has encouraged the organized marketing of agricultural products in the country through the network of regulated markets.
Most of the state governments and Union Territories have made laws for the development agricultural goods market.
7,177 markets have been covered under regulation till March, 2002.
Out of which around 15 % work under regulation sector.
Yet the study says that the establishment of regulated markets have achieved a limited success in providing need based facilities and services in building an able marketing.
There is a lack of required facilities to manage most of the products in regulated markets.
Rural periodic markets generally and tribal markets particularly have remained out of their development area.
Monopoly methods and traditions have stopped the functioning of agricultural marketing through free and competitive trade, use of modern techniques in crop technology and export, agricultural based industries and goods granaries etc.
Enhancing trade competition and providing facilities such as categorization, standardization, storage, financial security ,etc have become subsidiary works.
Efficient agricultural marketing facility is required for the development of agricultural sector.
It is essential to have flexible, quick and inclusive marketing structure to face challenges like increasing production, expansion of new technologies, changing social, economical scenario, size of distribution series and increasing demand to reduce the margin between consumer and farmers, consequences emerged due to liberalization and globalization after the due duration of world trade organizations.
The liberalization of agriculture in world trade have provided opportunities to farm sectors to send their agricultural products in world market.
In order to provide market access to agricultural communities, it is essential that the internal agricultural marketing system in the country is united and strengthened.
Currently only state governments under state agricultural marketing regulation act have been given the right to start the process of establishing regulated agricultural markets.
As a result of the process of establishing markets, the private sector cannot initiate the establishment markets with best facilities.
The role of the government in this sector should be of a facilitator and not of a market manager or controller.
Essential high level labor skill and more and more capital for the basic structure and management of market can only be obtained from private sectors.
The farmers are encouraged to categorize their agricultural product on farm through direct marketing.
Thus they escape the expense on transportation to bring the product from farm to the regulated market for selling.
The farmers and the buyers also invest very little through direct marketing and it yields good amount of money.
Consequently the result of direct marketing expansion of agricultural products in south Korea lead to 20-30 % decrease in consumer's price and the producers also received up to 10-20 % more profit.
The warehouse certification in the country should also be started so that along with the amount of product the quality is also certified and these receipts are accepted as the basis for loans.
The loan margin need of agricultural products storage should be reduced.
It is also essential to adopt international level quality management method.
Sorghum has been cultivated in India since ancient times but they were sown for fodder, not for food grain, But now they are sown for food grain also.
Sorghum is cultivated in northern India during Kharif season and during Kharif and rabi both in southern India.
In India it is cultivated at large scale in Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh.
Not much sorghum is grown in states like West Bengal, Tamil Nadu etc.
As per official figures in India the acreage of this crop is around 1.25 billion acres.
India is third largest in terms of area under sorghum cultivation.
Maharashtra is the biggest sorghum producing state.
Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh occupy second and third position respectively.
Sorghum seeds contain 10.4 % protein, 1.9 % fibers, 1.6% minerals and 72 % carbohydrates.
Sorghum contains 1.4-2.4 % of lycin amino acid protein.
Starch is prepared from a special variety of sorghum.
Liquor is also prepared from its seeds.
It is also a best means of providing alcohol.
Apart from green fodder , silage which is a tasty food for cattle is also prepared from sorghum.
Around 12-15 kgs/acre seeds are sown for fodder.
While the cultivation done for getting grains require 8 kgs/ acre seeds.
The grains start growing till end of October.
Its average production is 2.5-3 tonnes /acre.
Sorghum is a crop of warm climate but fast growing species could also be grown during summers in cold regions.
More than 30 degree Celsius temperature at the time of fiber growth can be harmful for the sorghum crop.
6-8 pH value of a land is considered good for the cultivation of sorghum.
There should be good drainage system in the farm.
The farm should be ploughed using cultivator or tiller and leveler should be run.
CSH-5: This variety gets prepared in 105-110 days.
It prepares 33-35 tonnes /hectare grains and 90-95 tonnes fodder.
The plants are around 175 c.m long.
The corns are long and semi-tied, the size of the grains are small.
CSH-9: This variety gets prepared in 105-110 days.
36-40 tonnes of grains and 95-100 tonnes/ hectare of fodder are prepared.
Jawahar sorghum : This variety gets prepared in 110-115 days.
The grain production is 3032 tonnes/hectare.
They are appropriate for light less deep land and low rainfall areas.
The seeds should be treated with fungicide and thyrum at the rate of 3 g.m per kg seeds.
10 gm agosprilium and PSB, culture should be used at the rate of per kilogram of seeds after treating the seeds with fungicide medicine.
Sorghum is sown in the month of July.
Sowing should be done keeping a gap of 12-15 c.m between the plants and a gap of 45 c.m between the rows.
There should be 15-17 plants in every square meter.
Dry sowing can be done after receiving information regarding rains.
The dense plants should be pulled out and a certain distance should be kept between the plants.
A healthy plant is kept at a distance of 10-12 c.m while doing rarefaction after sprouting when the plants are 8-10 days old.
Rest all the plants are removed.
Later if there are light showers then another plant can be planted at a place where there are no plants.
Irrigation is very essential after putting manure in sorghum field.
The weeds should be removed after 15-20 days of sowing.
Sorghum fields also get hugely attacked by insects, The various kinds of insects that infect them damage the crops.
If the crops are infected by stem penetrating insect then a solution of 10 gm soap should be sprayed thrice at an interval of 10 days.
Maharashtra crops get hugely infected by meez fly.
The insect attacks when the fibers come out.
The female flies are orange or red in color which lays eggs inside the flowers.
Withing 2-3 days membranes come out of the eggs and destroys the flower testes by eating them.
An average of 40-50 tonnes/hectare grains and 100-125 tonnes dry kadbi are received by doing hybrid sorghum cultivation using advanced methods.
It depends on rains.
Roughly 25-30 tonnes/hectare dry kadbi are received from these areas generally.
Small cardamom is grown from India till Malaysia.
Small green cardamom is used to bring aroma to any edible product.
Their seeds are quite aromatic.
The botanical name of green cardamom is elettaria cardamom.
The plant is bushy and the stem extends till 3 meter.
The flowers appear in white bunches.
Cardamom also appears in bunches.
The flower fruits have three covers which contain seeds.
Mix cardamom in black pepper and ghee and consume it to cure sour belching.
Doing this cures sour belching.
Sometimes we get hiccups which lasts for quite long.
People feel uncomfortable in themselves in such situations.
Cardamom should be immediately put in mouth for getting rid of sudden hiccups.
It immediately gives relief.
People are mostly attacked by heat strokes during summers.
During this season cardamom should be kept inside mouth before going out.
It saves from heat strokes.
Even if someone is attacked by heat then the patient should be immediately given cardamom.
It reduces the effect of heat stroke.
Dream disorder- chew cardamom seeds or dissolve it in milk and drink it at night, Doing this cures dream disorder.
This formula is also effective for patients with stone.
There is an ongoing debate over farming.
Agriculture is the means of livelihood of majority of the people in India.
Despite being marginal farmers some of them get good income through agriculture.
Some farmers are getting good yield despite being in infertile areas.
All this becomes true through hard work and strong will power.
One such farmer is Nand kiashore Jaismeria from Jodhpur district.
He has turned the proverb of getting gold from barren land into reality.
In the beginning they cultivated plums adopting integrated system and now they are earning name in other states through plum nurseries.
For this he has received many honors including N. G. Ranga farmer award.
Around 25 k.m to the north of district headquarters(Jodhpur), behind behind sandy hills, Mankalao village is not considered good for cultivation.
Nand kishore Jaisalmeria lives in village surrounded by sand hills from all sides.
The average rainfall in the area is 365 mm.
The farmers consider it better to engage themselves for earning livelihood in other works rather than agriculture.
The scientists examined the farm soil.
After investigation with the initiative of scientists, with advanced systems, Nand kishore planted plums in his farm.
For the first time 750 saplings were planted.
A responsibility of taking care of these plants in sandy soil was undertaken.
He irrigated each and every plant and took care of them.
some time later these plants grew old and flowers appeared on them.
Nand kishore was utterly happy to see this.
He immediately reached Kajri and informed the scientists about the flowering of plants.
The scientists observed the place and gave techniques to save plum flowers.
Consequently innumerable plums were produced in the farm.
In such a situation , neem ,acacia etc. were planted in the farm.
There was double profit from these trees.
Firstly, the farm lines became strong and secondly the trees started providing wood for fuel and fodder permanently after growing old.
This also led to the increase in soil conservation, security and fertility.
Later the woods of these trees also became means of income for them.
Hence cultivation of a single farm, especially selling plums began, the fee was received by giving bee keeping box on rent, wood for fuel was cut from plum and other trees.
Every plum tree started giving 30 kilograms of plums every year.
India is an agriculture dominant country.
Agriculture is the livelihood of around 65-70% population here.
Almost 65% work force is engaged into this and currently(2010-11)agricultural contribution in gross domestic product(GDP)is 14.2 % and the share in export is around 16%.
Its development is not possible without villages.
Wheat, paddy, sugarcane, maize, potatoes, vegetables etc. are major produces here.
The population of the country is ever increasing which was 102.7 billion as per the census of 2001 and is around 121 billion currently while arable land is limited and that is reducing everyday.
Consequently the size of the land holding has reduced to around 0.15 hectare.
Hence in order to increase the food production as per demand, the information regarding advanced agricultural technique is very essential.
The crop experts are fully responsible towards this work.
The agricultural scientists are successfully facing food crisis.
The agricultural crops have been classified into three categories kharif, rabi and zaid as per the seasons.
Major Rabi crops are wheat, mustard, gram, peas,lentils and rapeseed.
Seasonal crops such as -kahu, melon, lady's finger, cucumber, urad, green gram, cow pea, sunflower etc. can also be grown during Zaid.
Cotton is one of the major fibrous agricultural produce.
They are sown during kharif season and cotton clothes are manufactured from the fibers received from them.
They are primarily grown in black soil, alluvial soil and laterite soil.
The quality of cotton depends of the length, thinness,maturity and uniformity of fibers.
Like other crops it is essential to save cotton also from various diseases(mlani, mul,enthrekanoz and jhulsa) and insects(haral, chitkabri or pink sundi) so as to get good production.
Oats, lusarn, sorghum, gwar, millet, napier grass and para grass are major fodder crops.
Amongst them barsim, napier and para grass are extremely nutritious.
Water puts a great impact on the plant growth and crop production.
Hence the land should have ample moisture.
This water benefits the crop through multiple chemical, physical and biological processes.
The water moisture absorbing capillary gravitation in soil is found in four forms.
The soil manure is quite significant for profitable production.
Manure increases the fertility of land and supplies essential nutritive elements for the growth of plants.
The essential elements that the plants get from them are nitrogen, phosphorous, potash, calcium, magnesium and sulfur.
The source of potassium are also organic matter and chemical fertilizers.
Calcium, magnesium and sulfur are found in many kinds of compound forms.
The amount of nutritive elements required for these crops are different for different crops and the time of supplying them also varies.
The requirement of nitrogen is more during growth but the requirement of phosphorous is more initially.
Plants absorb potassium from the soil till the crop growth.
Potassium is required in great amount in the beginning for the growth of roots.
Cow dung manure is the best of all manures.
They contain all nutritive elements for the plants but majority of the cow dung is used in the form of fuel in our country.
The nutritive elements of the cow dung that gets collected in heap in small amounts decreases due to rains and sun.
Thus in order to properly collect this manure, the manure is collected in a pit which is called compost.
These days there is a tradition of preparing gobar gas using gobar gas plants.
The appropriate amount of water availability is extremely important for good production.
Rain water is the major source.
But it is uncertain and irregular, therefore the lack of water is supplied through artificial means of irrigation.
Atmospheric moisture, temperature, wind speed, land variety, special weeding of crop, style of sowing and ploughing and land fertility determine the amount of water requirement for the crops.
Accumulation of more than required water leads to hindrance in air circulation because of which harmful salts start accumulating, the temperature of soil decreases, roots become loose, ploughing becomes bad and becomes marshy.
Accumulated water gives birth to various diseases and insects.
The quality of under ground water also varies.
At some places the water is fit for agriculture, while at other places it is saline, sticky or poisonous.
Thus such kind of water should be used for irrigation keeping their quality in mind.
Saline water contains more of NO3.
Such water can be of both the varieties saline and sweet.
Saline water is harmful for agriculture but sweet water is not.
It is essential to have knowledge about various qualities of crops so as to get more profit and good production.
Advanced varieties have special qualities of giving more production and as a result of their combined contribution, the per unit area agricultural production can be achieved.
Short day plants- If the amount of sun rays during the day is more than the set duration then the botanical growth is more and the plants do not flower.
For example if the maximum time limit is 8 hours then the time period for sun rays should be 8 hours of less than that.
The major kharif crops in this section consist of maize, soybean, sorghum, millet, paddy etc.
They are called C4 plants.
Day neutral plants: The flowering process of plants of this section are not affected by the duration of light.
The flowering happens in both scanty and long sun rays duration such as cotton, sun flower, tomatoes etc.
Cash crops- Which are immediately or directly sold in the market to earn profit such as sugarcane or potatoes, tobacco.
Padology-It is that branch of soil science which considers soil to be purely natural object and the experimental usefulness is not taken care of.
This science is related to the origin and distribution of soil which is known in the study of soil organization, life and mobility.
This science studies the quality, classification, behavior, anatomy and body composition of the soil, it also includes the description of natural powers responsibility of soil preparation.
On the basis of soil examination, the availability of essential nutritive elements in the farm soil can be determined and on the basis of available examination results balanced fertilizer recommendations for the crops are made.
Hence soil examination is extremely important for advanced agriculture.
Fruits and vegetables have special significance in human diet.
His everyday food should essentially include fruits and vegetables because they provide him with vitamin, carbohydrates, salts, iron, calcium and phosphorous which are essential for balanced diet.
Other than food fruits and vegetables are also significant from economic point of view.
Fruit cultivation is more profitable than food grain.
Developed countries also do international trade of fruits.
Further, industries have been set up to make jam,jelly, squash, vinegar, juice, sauce etc. from fruits which are the means of livelihood of many people.
Several kinds of fruits should not be planted together in the orchard but separately.
While making plantation plan one should make sure that various kinds of trees develop properly, it facilitates agricultural work and more and more fruits are planted.
The various popular methods of tree plantation are square size, rectangular, six sided, quinkans and contour.
The growth of trees are also affected by temperature, air, and chilly weather.
Excess heat and fast wind are harmful for them.
Temporary shade from hay or grass is build to protect the plants from scorching heat.
It is essential to plant wind blocking trees surrounding the orchard to protect them strong wind.
The process of making vegetable and fruit plants able to face the chilly weather, hot wind and scorching heat is the process of making them tolerant.
For this it is essential to do minimum irrigation before it dries and they should be left more and more open.
The scarcity of temperature also makes the plants tolerant.
The process of planting the live plant from one place to another is called transplantation.
It is appropriate to do transplantation when the plants are sleeping or are more actively grown.
Transplantation is done to save expensive seeds.
The plants develop roots with many small branches due to trimming of roots because of transplantation and the time between its plantation and growth is saved, Because of this it has become possible to grow the crops even in adverse conditions.
The transplantation should be carefully carried.
After pulling out the plant they should be kept in a shady place and covered with a wet cloth.
Mango is an extremely important fruit because of its peculiar taste and various uses.
There is great demand for them outside India in foreign countries.
They are grown in all the parts of the country, The various varieties are Dashhari, Safeda, langda, bambaiya, banglauri, neelam etc.
Banana is also a significant Indian fruit.
It is a warm tropical region fruit and apart from India they are hugely grown in Malaya, United States of America, Canada, France, Germany and England.
Hot and humid climate is appropriate for them.
Fruits such as guava, black berry, papaya, litchi etc. have special significance in our country.
The cattle rearing and veterinary science branch of biological science includes getting information regarding animal care, methods of getting more amount of milk from them and poultry farming,fish rearing and honey bee industry.
Further biological science is also helpful in agriculture.
With this the farmers get information about the harmful insects and become more successful in destroying their eggs.
With this he gets knowledge about his friend organisms such as earthworms, frogs, snakes and birds.
The knowledge of living science helps in many industries also.
There is great significance for " agricultural insect science " (Agricultural Entomology)since or country is agricultural dominant.
Generally all the crops get affected by insects, which consequently leads to great loss and sometimes the entire crop gets damaged.
Grasshopper, termite, pyrila, chempa, gandhi, fruit and stem borer are some known insects.
The axis of the plant is the ascending part or stem which is towards the light at the upper side.
It bears leaves, buds, branches, flowers and fruits.
The major work of the leaves is to maintain photosynthesis, respiration, vaporization and biological action.
Earthworms are mostly found in humid soil.
Aristotle was the first person to record information regarding animals.
Asinger and storer have also adopted this classification.
Male and female frogs are different.
The heart of frog is broad from front and pointed from behind.
The major work of kidney is to separate harmful elements such as urea, uric acid in the form of urine.
The wings of pigeon are of three kinds- contour, down and rome.
Rabbit is a coward but clever animal.
Cestode is an organism found in the food placenta of humans.
Thiofrustis was the student of Aristotle and he had recorded the information of plants.
the roots of sweet potatoes are somewhere thin and somewhere thick, They are known as tuberous roots.
some flowers are unisexual, some are bisexual, some are feminine, masculine and some are neuter gender.
Tissue system are of three kinds- epidermis, death and convection.
Kahu, Petha, bitter gourd, gourd, cucumber etc. fall into the category of some plants of kukurbita.
The primary tissue of the biennial plants changes as their body becomes bulky and the secondary convection tissue arises which fulfills the need of their grown body.
Breathing process takes place in the chondriosomes present in the living cells.
The flowers of this family are of various colors.
The moss is called funeria.
Agriculture machinery are chiefly classified in two sections.
The first section consists of those machinery which are run by farmers physical power such as khurpi, phawda the second section consists of those machinery which require animals, diesel engine or tractor power to run such as plow, harrow, cultivator.
The machinery named cultivator is used to make the soil soft.
It is useful in destroying weeds, mixing manure to the field and preparing the field for sowing.
The major varieties are Kanpur, Vahvah, shabas etc.
Another useful machinery is harrow.
Like cultivator, harrow also pulls out weeds from the tilled field, makes the soil soft and is helpful in plucking the tough land of the sown field.
Field plowing has special significance in agricultural methods.
Plowing is done from outside to inside or from inside to outside in the field.
Transmission of power is the process of sending power to any engine or electric motor etc. to the source that runs it.
Easily accessible conventional tracks are used to run farm machines.
The tracks are made of strong and flexible element and are put on two and more dhirnis.
They are made from rubber, leather or cotton and are strong.
The farmers of our country generally cut the crops using hand cutters.
The need for advanced equipment for agriculture is ever increasing along with industrial development.
Hence for harvesting the use of reaper and combine harvester at the place of darate is increasing which can be pull from both bullocks and tractors.
The next job after crop harvesting is of " Lank ki Madai " in the field.
It is extremely important to use agricultural equipment in order to increase agricultural production.
These agricultural equipment are run through two kinds of energy.
These days paddy is sown using " zero till " machine which does good work at low cost.
Chilled cast iron is more tough as compared to other kinds of iron and the iron layers made from them are naturally sharp due to upper friction.
Domestic plow makes a kund of ' V ' size which leaves land between two kunds and in order to plow them line plowing becomes essential.
An equipment named Bakkhar is also popular in Bhognipur tehsil of Kanpur district apart from Bundelkhand.
It is a second land finishing equipment.
Patela is also known as Pata, Suhaga, Sarawan or Haenga.
Dhenkli is one of the ancient method of pulling out water from wells, ponds and canals, It is used at such places where it is not possible to put any stable equipment.
All the processes carried with an objective to prepare land for sowing and making the land weed free and loose during crop growth is known as land finishing.
Indigenous plow is a multipurpose equipment for Indian farmers.
Guniya is a useful equipment to make signs on wood.
Basula is a major equipment of rural carpenter which is used by him in daily works.
Six kinds of retis, flat, semi circular, triangular, round and hand are used.
The work of Jambur is to pull out the nail from the wood.
Ari is an equipment to cut wood.
The use of Nihai is extremely important to beat the iron successfully.
Parallel lines are made when the chisel is kept diagonally.It weakens the lines and a fear of water water seepage near the chisel exists.
Agricultural economy emerged in the form of economic branch which studies the economic processes and economic policies of farmer community.
Hence agricultural economic science is an aspect of economic science and secondly it is a special branch of agricultural science.
Agricultural science is that science which uses economic theories and methods in special conditions of agricultural industry.
These means can be used in various ways to fulfill many kinds of requirements and achieving various objectives.
India was previously a lagging country in agricultural production.
The major reasons are- small holdings, sub division of holdings, dependence on monsoon, epidemic of floods and famine, inappropriate and conventional agricultural methods, illiteracy of farmers, poverty etc.
Many remedies have been done and are being done by the government after independence.
Which has increased agricultural production.
The government is running various educational programs to remove illiteracy.
There are various kinds of geographical and economic conditions in various parts of the country.
Hence a similar kind of educational method is not prevalent in the entire country.
Various kids of educational methods as per the regional situation are being adopted such as -rainy agriculture, humid agriculture, irrigated agriculture, dry agriculture and jhooming agricultural method.
An organ of agricultural economy in India is agricultural labor.
They are those people who work on other people's land and get a part of crop or money for their services.
They have no right to take any decision related to the land or the crops grown on the land.
Their number in India is ever increasing.
Zamindari System- Under this a single person is the master of the land of one or more villages and he is called the zamindar.
He is in charge of getting land tax from the farmers and submit them in the royal treasure.
The British rulers gave the authority of the land to some British followers and made a sacrifice of the interest of billions of farmers who plowed the field because of which they had to be dependent on the mercy of Zamindars.
Zamindari system was also abolished through the regulations passed in states like Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh etc.
Only then the creative work of agriculture began.
controlled markets have been established with the objective to improve the condition of agricultural produce marketing.
The buyers and sellers of the committees of these markets are given full representation and their organization and functioning is done as per the rules framed under the rules of the act.
animals have been significant in human life since ancient times.
According to the Livestock Census 2008 the total number of animal and hen was 648 million.
Despite more than 112.5 ml tonne milk production in the year 2009-10, we are lagging behind in production.
Switzerland, Denmark, America and New Zealand etc. are far ahead from our country from this point of view.
The milk production in the country during 1950-51 was 17 ml tonne.
animal rearing is that branch of behavioral science which tells about the art of economically keeping the animals fit.
Under this we study subjects like animal reproduction, animal nutrition, animal management, health etc.
Around 31 % part of the total annual income of our country is received through animal wealth.
The total G.D.P. contribution of animal wealth and fisheries in the year 2008-09 was 4.07%.
We get useful products such as milk, flesh, wool, eggs, leather, manure, hair etc. from animals.
animals are used in agricultural works such as plowing, irrigation and loading goods.
Under various five year plans in the country consistent efforts are being made to improve animal breed, growth in milk production, flesh, wool and eggs.
Research workshops are being held at many places in the country and after the testing beneficial facts are being told to those who rear animals.
The Central government established National Dairy Research Institute, NDRI in Karnal(Harnal) in 1955, This institutions makes discoveries of new information in the field of cattle rearing and milk production and spreads them to the farmers via telecasting.
It has been estimated that the average annual milk production is 178 kilogram per cow and 491 kilogram per buffalo.
Despite the decreasing number of buffaloes in the country their usefulness is more.
50-55% of the milk production in the country is received through buffaloes only but the area of cow reform through breeding is more expansive as compared to buffaloes.
the cows of other section fulfill dual objectives which implies that they give good amount of milk as well as their bulls are good for agricultural work.Its varieties are Haryana, kokrez, tharparkar(safed sindhi), kosi or mewati, angol, gowlao, nimadi, gangatiri or shahabadi and krishna ghati etc.
The third category of cows have been put in Draught category.
The bulls of this category are gamous for agricultural works and fast walk but the cows give very less milk, Amrit mahal, nagauri, pawar, hisar, kherigadh, alambadi, rath, bachaur, bargur, dangi kangayam, khilari, malwi etc. are some of the major varieties.
It is well known that the milk production of foreign breed of cows is much more than the cows of our country.
The major domestic breeds of cows are hybrid frigian, brown swiss, red den, aayar shayar garnsi red pole and short horn.
The hybrid variety of cows made pregnant from them give more milk.
The major hybrid variety of cows are Jarsindh, karan swiss and karan fry.
The milk production of hybrid cows is obviously more and they also become mature soon and start giving milk as compared to domestic cows.
The major objective of sheep rearing is to get wool.
Apart from wool, the country earns 28 billion every year through the flesh, milk, leather and and dung of sheep.
Our country gets an average of 675 grams wool every year from sheep.
Indian sheep have been primarily divided into two sections.
The first category consists of sheep with wool and the second category consists of sheep with hair.
There are two major breeds of sheep with hair, mandila and nellore. These sheep have less of wool and more of hairs.
The female sheep and goats mate after 18-21 days for 72 hours.
Their gestation period generally lasts for 150 days.
The male sheep are emasculated after 1-2 months for getting good quality of meat.
Looking at the increasing demand and less production of eggs and meat in the country the Indian government is paying attention to the development of poultry farming.
The poultry farming business can be initiated with lost cost and more and more profit can be achieved.
Protein is an essential element of food.
Apart from pulses they can be easily taken from eggs.
The weight of a standard size of egg is 50-60 grams.
Hen takes less time and begin to lay eggs in around 6 months.
When hens are reared for meat then they take even lesser time and get ready in around 1.5-2 months.
The process of making eggs in the genitals and hatching takes around 24 hours.
The process of coming out of the baby from the eggs takes places naturally and also by a artificial technique using an incubator.
A large section of Indian population is vegetarian.
Their protein supplement is fulfilled by milk only.
Hence milk is an integral organ of human diet.
280 m.l/per person of milk consumption is essential but its achievement is difficult.
Hence promotion of dairy trade is extremely important.
The success of dairy business depends on the fact that the average milk production of the cattle should be more.
Milk is the most significant food of the nature.
The amount of mineral salts present in milk is little less than the required mineral salts for human body.
Particularly iron and copper salts are negligible in amount.
Majority of the people in our country are vegetarians.
Milk has a special significance.
The milk adulteration is measured through lactometer.
The relative density is determined through lactometer.
The relative density of cow's pure milk is 1.028 at 60 degree F while the relative density of buffalo's milk is 1.032.
The number of bacteria is present in the milk developed in our country is huge.
Despite total information regarding clean milk production of the people engaged in milk business, the milk gets contaminated.
Milking is also an art.
The objective of milking is to get all the milk from the breast.
The success of dairy business depends a lot on the milking technique.
The work of milking is mostly done using hands in our country.
Milking is also done using machines but its use is restricted to big milk industries.
Milking using hands is more prevalent in the country.
there are three major methods of milking using hands- 1, milking by bending the thumb, 2, pinching technique, 3, total hand milking, Total hand milking technique is the best technique from scientific point of view.
The age of the farm animals is quite significant for the buyers and sellers of cattle.
The age of the animal can be determined by seeing the structure, horns, nails, records and teeth conditions.
The total sum of all kinds of teeth of cows-buffaloes, sheep is 32.
The teeth covered by the front teeth are called Incisors.
In cows-buffaloes, sheep etc. they are present only in lower jaw.
When the animals get all kinds of teeth permanently then this stage is called " full mouth ".
The age of the cattle can also be determined by the rings made on their horns.
The first ring appears on the cattle horn when they are three years of age.
Then after every year a new ring appears.
The formula of determining cattle age is -- cattle age= number of rings+2.
In today's modern and scientific age, only the artificial method of animal breding is adopted.
Rural people are also understanding the significance of artificial fertilization.
Under this method the sperms of male animal is sent to the genital organs of female at proper time and place using machines.
This kind of method helps in improving the breed.
The first artificial fertilization in India was set up in 1939 in Mysore by Dr. Sammat Kumaran.
The knowledge of which elements and what amount of elements should be fed to the cattle is essential for successful cattle rearing.
Then only the cattle keeper can get good production from the animals and can prepare powerful animals able to bear weights.
The animals consistently require food elements and energy for bodily growth and works such as breathing, digestion, milk ejection etc. and also to remain alive.
Like humans animals also need salts, mineral salts and vitamins.
Salts, mineral salts do not accumulate in the body, they come out in the form of urine or sweat.
Hence their regular supply should be fixed, Similarly some other mineral salts such as calcium phosphorous etc. are also essential for the building of bones and teeth.
Therefore the elderly animals should be regularly given 60 grams of salt and 30 grams of bone meal or khadia.
Vitamins are a kind of life elements.
They have significant contribution in functioning of almost all the bodily processes.
Diseases occur in a scarcity of any single vitamin.
Every organ of animal body whether external or internal has a different function.
The determination of whether the animal is good or bad is done on the basis of the structure and functioning of these organs.
Hence the external bodily structure of an animal has integral relationship with its bodily functions.
For example chest, big circle on chest, development of lungs and heart express that.
Similarly slanting back of bulls with quick walking and running are considered good while the best quality of milking cow should have plain back.
The common temperature of animal, pulse rate and breathing rate signifies its complete health.
The differences symbolizes animal's ill heath or uncommonness.
The common temperature of cows-buffaloes should be 101.5 degree F and that of sheep-goats should be 103 degree F.
The common pulse rate of cows and buffaloes is 40-60/min and that of sheep and goats is 65-85/min.
Similarly the respiration rate of cows and buffaloes is 12-18/min and that of sheep and goats is 12-20/min.
The animals are majorly infected by contagious diseases.
Majority of the diseases spread by microbes such as bacteria, virus, fungus and protozoa.
The cattle keepers should carefully take measure to save their animals from these diseases.
Prevention is better than cure otherwise it become difficult to treat when the animal catches disease.
In order to prevent from the disease firstly the diseased animal should be kept away from the healthy animals so that the disease does not catch other animals, The animals should be regularly given different kinds of vaccines.
Hence there are two kinds of medicines for various diseases.
In the first category the medicines are used internally in the animal's body and in the second category the medicines are used externally.
Internally the animal is given medicine in the form of tablets, capsules, syrup, liquid, sauce, chyle etc.
I order to get quick effects of medicine the medicine is supplied in the form of injection.
Externally the animals are given medicine by putting ointment or powder on the wound or by dressing it, bathing the animal in a solution of medicine, plaster and oil massage.
There are 7 Central animal breeding farms in the country- Surajgadh(Rajasthan), Chiplima and Simliguda(Odisha), Dhamrod(Gujrat), Haissar ghatta (Karnataka), Almadi(Tamilnadu) and Andeshnagar (Uttar Pradesh).
The role of women in cattle rearing and dairy industry is 71% of total labor force.
Around 16.84 million women and 22.45 million humans are involved.
Bio-technology shows the scattered vision of future which helps in treating various kinds of diseases and gives nutrition to our expansive population and saves our environment.
Hence all these areas are under technology.
' Vision Document-2001 ' was made for the development of bio-technology which mentions reaching new heights in bio-technological research, framing it as per the interest of poor etc.
Common facts related to bio-technology.
It is essential to take care of human resource development, creative development, industrial and educational exchange, technological transfer, commercialization, biotech park, rules-regulations, human thinking and understanding, trust and participation for making bio-technology useful.
India is progressing significantly to achieve unparalleled capacity in bio technology which include sustainable food related problems, nutrition security, health care and use of various organic sources.
The major efforts in agriculture are being carried in the development of transgenic, purity of protocol genetic conversion tissue culture, exhibition program for gardening and forest species, molecular taxonomy, bio-pesticides, bio-fertilizers, animal wealth, aquaculture and sea organism technology.
Further soil salts, anti-dryness, anti-insect research areas are also there.
" Mission mode program " - bioinformatic networks have been established by major research institutions of the universities on Bamboo and ratanjot(Jaitropa diesel plant).
Cotton(Cotton-Coker FR)- development of trans genetics in cotton by using Cry 1 A(c).
Mustard(brasica jantia)- Finding 55% more production over national check varuna(T-59) through ' TMH-1 hybrid for the production of transgenic seeds.
Development of ' Allelo chemical- Azardiranchtin- A ' neem product for insect control.
It should be noted that India re-achieved the patent of neem in 2005 which was taken by Amecica's WR Grace Company in 1999.
Development of rhizo bacteria ' Fomes Lamoensis' for the growth of tea plants.
There have been remarkable research for the development of " Maxican beetle " to control carrot grass(Parthenium hyterophorus).
Astrogenic activity is seen in turmeric, fenugreek and sesame infusion.
A CD (Sasya Sampada) has been released on 10th December, 2004 on sapling biological resources,which consists of 2500 sapling species and 700 medicinal plants.
CD of 575 infusions of botanical pesticides of 48 plants have also been prepared.
Animal Bio-technology- ' somatic cell nuclear transfer technique ' has been developed for the development of embryo in mouse and buffalo clone.
Buffalo genomics program has been started at 6 centers of the country.
Tissue culture studies are ongoing on for the development of bamboo, eucalyptus and dry region species.
Projects on genetic varieties of teak, pines, eucalyptus and kaijurina are being encouraged.
In the field of biodiversity Salt tolerant genes' A marina ' has been separated from ' Pooni IR-20 ' , a variety of rice, And salt tolerance is found in the seeds of next generation.
Molecular studies are ongoing on brinjal, phylanthus, atlantia, vigna microlitima etc.
Agriculture is a process of making best use of earth resources by humans for the fulfillment of initial objectives such as food, fodder, fiber, fuel etc.
for example- crop production, fruits production, flower production, vegetable production, cattle rearing, bee keeping, silkworm rearing, lac insect rearing, wormiculture and fish rearing.
The development of agriculture in the world began before 1000 BC, whose short description(till 20C mid) exists.
The development of agriculture in India- India proves its claim of being an agriculture dominant country with its consistently increasing production and has achieved major place in the world in the field of agricultural development.
Still around 17.6 % share of national income is achieved through agriculture and it is true that around 65-70 % population of our country is associated with agriculture for livelihood.
Not only this in fact every citizen of the country is directly or indirectly associated with agriculture.
The major job of the population spending life in villages in agriculture only.
" Dasyu killing " was a term given to the encounter of Aryans and tribals after their invasion to India and settling in eastern Afghanistan, north-western border states, Kashmir, Punjab, some parts of Sindh and Rajasthan.
The oldest religious book of the Aryans speak about the food habit of the Aryans which mentions the use of milk, ghee, vegetables etc.
The tradition of eating sheep and goat's meat was also there.
There are 21 references of agriculture in the Rigveda.
The arrival of monsoon was a good sign and plowing began then after.
18th and 19th Century- During this period the significance of agricultural research and agricultural education was negligible.
Foreign companies brought several crops and fruits and flowers of the new world.
The business men were interested in producing commercial crops such as indigo, cotton, jute, tea and sugarcane.
British period- During this period also no attention was paid on agriculture.
In 1885 BC agriculture department was established in Bihar.
In 1906 Imperial agricultural institute, Pusa(Darbhanga) was established.
During 1905-1907 6 agricultural universities were opened in entire India, which consisted of Sabaur(Bihar), Layalpur(Punjab) now in Pakistan, Kanpur(Uttar Pradesh), Pune(Maharashtra), Coimbatore(Tamil nadu) and Nagpur(Maharashtra).
Second phase(1968-88)- It was called " Green Revolution period ".
Though good symptoms were seen in agriculture since 1965 which began under the development of 1940 decade in United States of america and spread in the world with other crops.
This revolution was seen in India under wheat and paddy during end of 1960 decade(1966-67).
The specialties were- advanced technologies, more capital investment and more agricultural production, The land became restricted but the production increased and providing food to the increasing human population became a major objective(which reached around 5 billion).
For the past 60 years since 1950-51 to 2010-11, there were several changes in the country , which were remarkable.
There was 7 times increase in rice, 4 times increase in maize and 3 times increase in banana and sugarcane.
Apart from bringing self dependence on food front, records were made in the production of dairy, hens, fish rearing, vegetables, fruits etc.
Before independence we had to import 10-12 m.l tonnes food grain and today we are able to send them.
Proper analysis and evaluation of the capacity and future of various regions.
Maintaining a balance between macro demand and availability of major useful products at national level.
Providing maximum pure profit to the producers.
Creating more job opportunities for the benefit of landless labors.
Creating a long term future structure for the scientific and even pace of the use of natural resources mainly land, water and forestry.
Planning and implementation facility were kept as the main objective while marking these regions along with long grass climatic similarities.
Later it was felt that though these 15 regions largely depict crop climate but if we see the proficient diversities in mind then the above mentioned regions would definitely not depict evenness while preparing expansive plan.
Similarly the current prevalent dis-balance in agricultural development and villagers income could be reduced and in the coming years agriculture will develop.
Though there will be much expenditure on core strategies such as land and water management, animal wealth and agricultural resources etc.
Then only the rate of development in agricultural sector will be stable.
The integrated method of providing food to the local people is significant.
Undoubtedly the research dissolution is weak here which should be increased.
Jhum cultivation should be reduced.
Because this region has the capacity of producing more in forestry and gardening.
Therefore total package should be prepared for the availability, marketing and storage of capital investments(good seeds, plants, fertilizers and pesticides).
Emphasis should be laid on minor irrigation, small ponds should be deepened and wells should be dug.
Good seeds should be made available.
Emphasis should be laid on fodder storage for animals.
The production of crops, animals and fish rearing.
Advanced water management methods should be developed.
Emphasis on slat affected land reform.
Proper use of underground water.
Emphasis should be laid on pulses in crop diversification and crop methodologies.
The diversification of fodder, fruits and vegetable farming is essential.
Emphasis should be laid on breeding, nutrition and management for getting good animals.
Emphasis should be laid on the use of advanced research techniques.
Industries based on fruits, vegetables should be established.
Emphasis should be laid on adopting dry cultivation technique.
Emphasis should be laid on fertilizer use by doing crop exhibition.
Attention should be on minor irrigation.
There should be arrangement for good quality fodder for animals.
Salty and alkaline soil should be reformed.
Country's 20% rice and 17% groundnut is produced here therefore they should be focused.
There is no irrigation facility for around 70% of agriculture holding hence water management program should be adopted for the development of ponds.
Collecting rain water & micro pond building.
Digging of wells and fixing shallow tube wells.
Increasing the production of rice and thick grains and mangoes, banana & coconuts should be taken for gardening.
Emphasis should be laid on building equipped boats to catch fish in deep ocean, fish storage, preservation, transportation facility through co-operative institutions.
Emphasis should be laid on prawn culture in salty water and barren lands should be reformed.
Small and big ponds should be developed.
The development and spread of fertilizer effective varieties of groundnut, cotton, millet and sorghum that matures soon should be quick.
The canals should be regularly run, shallow tube wells should be properly planted during summers.
Special emphasis should be laid on agricultural forestry and dry gardening and granaries should be developed.
In the recent decades the agricultural situation of the world has changed socially, politically, economically, technically and environmentally.
Reason- Necessity for sustainable agriculture was felt because of the excessive exploitation of land, water and environment in order to meet the demands of increasing human food, clothing, shelter, It means to make successful use of the agricultural resources to fulfill the changing demands of human so that natural resources are not wasted and environment also remains safe.
Hence sustainable agriculture can be kept in triangular form.
Hence while spending a rupee, there should be a profit of at least 2.25 Rupees that means a profit of 1:2:5.
More and more profit should be gained from the crops used in agricultural crop methods then only that method would be adopted otherwise it would be changed and another method would be used, For this which appropriate crop related agricultural policy should be prepared for growing crops and support price for all the crops by the government would be determined.
Sustainability is not a slogan but an essential necessity of future.
Therefore a co-ordination between these three( food-population, land-water environment and profit-loss proportion)is essential then only humans will be able to feed their stomachs.
Along with adopting cropping systems agri-business based cultivation that is a thinking of farming system should be adopted.
Major sources- energy, water, land and human power should be properly organized.
Special emphasis should be laid on carbonic farming, bio-fertilizers, bio-technology etc.
Integrated management- fertilizers, insect problem, weeds, water management etc should be emphasized.
The blind use of fertilizers and chemicals in agriculture has compelled us to think that certainly these chemical elements are harmful for our health.
For example today these chemicals are blindly being used in vegetables(brinjal, tomato, chili, potato etc.),fruits(banana, mango), cotton, sugarcane etc.
After all think what will the future of this cultivation.
The major markets of neem oil are there in Guntur, Vijaywada in Andhra Pradesh and in Raipur(M.P.)
The average rate of neem oil is 2000-2500 Rs / tonne which keeps increasing and decreasing as per demand and supply.
Neem purifies the environment and also cleans human blood.
Chewing 5-10 neem leaves everyday cures various blood impurities.
Neemex organic neem manure and insect control element are also used in farming which increases the production capacity of soil, tasty poison free , healthy ' organic food ' for humans.
Putting 500-1000 gm / tree in fruit trees after every six months is beneficial.
Vermicompost is also known as vermi culture or earthworm rearing.
It is a natural, complete and balanced diet manure for all kinds of plants, trees, vegetables, crops etc.
It can provide employment opportunities to unemployed youth, housewives and coming generations, Further the problem of environmental pollution can also be resolved.
They grow and eat these materials and make excreta which is known as vermi-compost.
They make manure in around 1.5 months, a compost of 3-5 cubic meter is achieved from the above mentioned row, They contain more amount of N,P,K.
In order to get good results from vermi-compost, it is essential to cover with leaves etc. after putting them in plants.
Do not use chemical fertilizers, insecticide, fungicide, weedicide along with vermi-compost.
The amount of vermi-compost in the land in the first year should be 5 tonnes/hectare, 2.5 tonnes/hectare in the second year and 1.25/hectare in the third year.
150-300 grams per pot should be given for flowers in pot.
' Mushroom ' is a fungus which is a very tasty and nutritive food item and is used also to make vegetables.
They are primarily found in big hotels at high rates.
The proper temperature to grow them should be between 22-30 degree Celsius.
They are also known as vegetarian meat because they contain less of carbohydrate and fats.
Ketchup and curry items are prepared from mushroom.
Generally mushroom becomes fit to be used as vegetable in 20 days.
The cost incurred is 7 Rupees/kg and can be sold at the rate of 25-30 Rupees.kg.
Strains of two new products - NCB-6 and NCB-12 of warm swet button were released by NRC solan.It produced 15 kg fresh khumb from 100 kg compost in six weeks.
Growing plants and trees with crops so that one also gets the benefit of wood for fuel, green fodder, increase in organic manure along with grain production, Agro-forestry includes Wheat+popular method.
Agro forestry should be carried with land use system and technology where along with beneficial trees, crops of various seasons(paddy,oil-seeds, pulses, fibers, fodder etc.) are also grown.
Apart from food grains, all the essential articles such as green fodder for animals, grains, fuel, fibers, fruits, fertilizers etc. are easily available.
No matter whether soil erosion is by heavy rainfall or strong wind in desert, it gets reduced by this method.
Farm labors get jobs round the year.
Environment can be improved.
Getting more and more production by utilizing effective use of rain water.
Providing employment opportunities to unemployed and agricultural labors.
Making reforms by organizing environment, situation and climate.
Agro-forestry plays an important role in making agriculture sustainable which is proved by the research done in recent years.
The soil fertility has reduced because of adopting dense methods, not adopting proper crop cycle, blindly spraying of chemicals, soil erosion, The influence of nutrients over crop production has reduced, production has become stable.
Hence Agro forestry is a good alternative in such situations, especially in increasing production and maintaining ecology balance.
Therefore certainly it can be said that there adoption of agro-forestry is extremely important and there is good scope for it in the future.
Agricultural farming and forestry are concerned with the production of food and other goods.
Agriculture was a major development which became a reason of the evolution of cultures, Here, pet animals were reared, plants were grown which produced extra food.
With this dense population and the development of leveled society were made able.
The study of agriculture is known in the form of agricultural science(Gardening study, a concerned practice is done in horticulture).
Several varieties of techniques and specialties are carried under agriculture.
They contained those techniques where available land is expanded to grow plants, For this water channels are dug and other forms of irrigation are used.
Growing crops on arable land and grazing animals on pasture and rangeland by shepherds are mainly concerned with agriculture.
Identifying various forms of agriculture and their proportionate growth became the main goals of thought in the last century.
In the developed world it is extended from range organic agriculture(for example, permaculture or organic agriculture)till dense agriculture(example industrial agriculture).
The importance of agriculture in the socio-economic framework of India can be felt by the fact that the livelihood of most of the country's population is dependent on agriculture.
The contribution of the agricultural sector to the Gross Domestic Product (G D P) is only 18 percent while as more than 60 percent population is dependent on it, result of which the per capita income in less.
It is also understood from this that there is a lot of disparity between the per capita income in agricultural sector and non-agricultural sector.
So it is necessary to resolve those issues which have effect on the income levels of the farmers.
The level of income is decided by total production and proper productivity level and the price obtained by the farmers.
Obstacles like abundance of small and tertiary cultivation which is about 80 percent of the total cultivation, incomplete market conditions and shortage of post and pre-communication also adversely affect the income levels of the farmers.
Accordingly, it is necessary to frame a useful strategy for making the agricultural activity more workable and permanent improvement in economic condition of the farmers is assured.
Other than this, many big and small irrigation projects were also undertaken.
In the beginning of the decade of 1960 a unified program was started for increasing productivity and benefiting the farmers and for agricultural development.
Farmers were acquainted with it and they too adopted the new seeds and technologies.
As a result, in the late sixties there was a lot of progress in the productivity and production of wheat.
Other than this, the new strategy emphasized on the denseness of the crop.
From then, the rate of increase in the agricultural yield remained above the rate of increase in the population.
As a result, a state of self sufficiency remained in foodgrains and this was known in the form of ' Green Revolution Age '.
Technology services, co-ordination in the government policy and industriousness of the farmers were the highlights of this age.
Even then, during the last decade production and productivity remained constant and the rate of development slowed.
To stop this decline and to move the agricultural sector ahead again, it is necessary to do more efforts.
During the year 2000 the national agricultural policy was approved by the Indian government whose goal was to achieve 4 percent more annual increase in agriculture on a long term basis through the medium of effective use of natural resources and other means.
On the other side non-agricultural sector grew more fast as expected.
The fall in the progress of the agricultural sector and the decreasing profitability in agriculture in front of the fast growth of the non-agricultural sector is the main thing of worry.
This lull was connected to the decreasing productivity of the crops, as a result the level of income of the farmers remained less.
Normally in the rural areas and specially in farmer families, shortage of employment opportunities is also another main problem.
Under the hindu ancestral rights (revised) act (2005) after giving land rights to the women, it became a necessary task to provide useful assisting services to the women farmers.
Joint land-tenure should be compulsory relating to both the house and farming land by which women can become eligible for availing loan and other services.
The regulation for land acquirement, specifically for counting damages, will be scrutinized.
For non-agricultural projects, as feasible, land with less fertility for agriculture will be allotted.
For irrigation, non-availability of enough water and at the right time is becoming a serious problem currently in many parts of the country in achieving both high productivity and stability in farming.
So assured irrigation is the need of the time.
In our country, although it rains satisfactorily but its division is very uneven.
So rain water storage and skillful use of water is important.
Efficiency in use of water can also be increased by co-ordination among seeds, variety, nutrients (macro and micro) and equipment of farming.
The thought process of increasing maximally the productivity and income of per unit of water should also be included in all crop production programs.
Water using organizations will be encouraged to achieve mastery in getting maximum advantage of available water.
It is also important to keep in mind that most farmers are dependent on land water for irrigation of their crops.
This resource, in which the farmers have invested their savings earned from efforts, is today decreasing day by day.
So, to ensure stability and longevity of water supply, rain water storage and restoring of water bodies will be given importance.
Other than resolving the problems of adequacy and quality, evenness in water distribution will be assured.
Water is a public resource and not private.
So developing a fair and equal system for accessing water and involving local people in the management of water resources will have to be given importance.
Women, in the form of water user, will have to play a role in both access and management.
For increase in availability water and doing it's correct usage the following remedies will be done.
For assuring the stability of supply, rain water storage and restoring water bodies will be given importance.
To regulate and control land water development and management, necessary united legislative remedies will be done.
All existing wells and ponds will be restored.
A water literacy campaign will be started and necessary rules will be made for constant use of land water.
In water scarce areas, emphasis will be given on useful way of farming high priced and less water demanding crops like pulses and oilseeds.
In certified famine prone areas a famine code will be applied in which the measures adopted to reduce the effect of unfavorable monsoon and to take maximum advantage of good weather will be mentioned.
In the same way in areas of excessive heavy rainfall a flood code will be applied by which immediately after the floods, keeping in mind the requirements of the farmers, help will be obtained for changing the flood free weather into a main farm production period.
National Rainforest Area Authority will give the technical and other support in this regard.
Livestock which includes poultry is an important means of livelihood.
This farming contributes to about one fourth of the gross domestic product.
Women are involved in large numbers in this activity.
Ownership of livestock is much more balanced because the families of poor farmers mostly have cattle , buffalo , sheep and goats.
The big hurdles faced by the farmer families are reproduction, fodder, health maintenance, and prices for their produce.
It is necessary to resolve these issues with the help of useful strategy.
Farmer clinics run by the animal doctors and agricultural science graduates will be encouraged in increasing the income of the owners of the animals through high productivity of the livestock and overall workmanship.
Along with this, crop-livestock unified farming techniques and organic farming and production of bio-fertilizers will be encouraged.
There is also a necessity to restructure the insurance of animals and this will be made easy for all the animals owners.
In regard to poultry it is necessary to take the following measures.
On all ports of entry, for imported birds quarantine (quarantine) and checkup and vaccination facilities will established and strengthened because such safety measures are very essential for keeping the poultry industry in a good state and for protection of life and livelihood.
Before giving permission to sell in the market, safety of imported poultry vaccines and checkup of efficacy will be made mandatory.
Poultry will be recognized in the form of a agricultural activity.
To encourage collective or small poultry asset holders adequate help will be made available for backyard poultry farmers.
Lakhs of families get income and livelihood from both coastal and inland fishing.
Encouraging fishery in the scientific form, clustering and processing, there are enough opportunities to improve the income of the fisherman families on a consistent basis in eco-friendly form.
National Fishery Development Board (NFDC) has been established by the Indian government by which full attention can be given on fishing and main activities related to water-agriculture and professional management can be done.
The following steps will be taken for encouraging modern water-agriculture procedures and price enhancing.
Coastal communities should be made capable for creating biocover like mangroves, kejurina, Elecornia Atriplex and other holophytic plants.
By this help will be available in keeping safe the life and livelihoods of the coastal fishermen and farm families in the situations of sea water flooding like cyclones, tsunami.
Bio resources are related to the ample reserve of flora and fauna in which are included soil, small plants and small creatures which is the third most important available natural resource after land and water.
For attaining some of the above said goals there are two enactments present - Plant variety protection and Farmer Rights Act (PPVFR), 2001 and Bio Diversity Act 2002.
The implementation of these acts will be made stronger and broad directives will be developed in such a way that the rights of the farmers and farmer community can be recognized.
For protection and development of bio-resources the following will be encouraged.
Through the bio-diversity registers traditional information (traditional knowledge) will be documented in which involvement of women will be done who have a lot of this knowledge.
By genetic homogeneity there will be increase in the genetic vulnerability towards pests and diseases.
So unification of pre reproduction and collective reproduction will be done so that small farmers will get help in protecting from pest and disease epidemic.
To understand the importance of protection of genetic resources encouragement will be given to establish genome clubs in the rural schools and colleges.
In such bio-valleys farmers will be helped through venture capital and other assistance so that they are able to protect, choose and factorize valuable medicinal plants for the protection of health.
A process of awards and rewards will be developed so that people can be made able and encouraged to keep their genus safe under the bio-diversity act.
For these purposes use of bio-diversity process will be done.
Livestock owners will be encouraged to accept their right to continue the use and development of their reproduction fund and reproduction traditions.
Accepting the important role of protection of genetic diversity and livestock owners, it is necessary to document the indigenous knowledge about animal protection and reproduction of the shepherd community.
For encouraging on spot safety with regard to animal species state farms can be used.
For giving protection to animal genetic resources pastures will be designated.
For testing germ plasma, facilities related to protection from disease will be provided and choosing of disease tolerant varieties will be given preference.
Indian varieties of cow-buffaloes are in demand in other countries.
So Zoology graduates, self-help groups (SHG) and progressive animal farmers will be encouraged to keep such breed of animals and given assistance so that maximum benefit can be taken of the opportunities of export.
But export of all bio material, in which animals are also included will be done according to the postulates of bio-diversity act.
The role of science and technology is important in the change happened in farm management and yield.
To gain control on the lull in the technology used in the present , new technology , which can be useful to increase the per unit of production of land and water is necessary.
Non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and private sector research and development organisations will also be included in NARS.
NARS will be restructured so that problems of small and tertiary farmers can be solved in an effective way.
Research strategy should be favorable to the nature, should be in the interest of small farmers and women.
To assure the safe and responsible use of re-compounded DNA technology or genetic engineering, a national bio technology regulation authority will be established.
Increase will be done in yield of various types of crops according to requirement, like from the viewpoint of being researched, good quality fruits and vegetables.
To fulfill the requirements of the farmers and to increase the scientific yield in organic farming high level multi-disciplinary effort will be done.
There is a chance to adopt principles and ways of organic farming under crop-livestock-fishing unified production processes.
In agricultural areas with dense unitary crop, from the viewpoint of ecology, economics and income generation, crop diversification can be beneficial.
Even then, along with any advice given with regard to crop diversification, such measures should also be definitely told by which effective market assistance can be assured for optional crops.
At the time of making ready the plan for crop diversification, specially from food crops to non-food crops like in relation to production of bio-fuel, national food safety will be kept in mind.
In Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) rules, researched products and with regard to process of pricing for farmers, provision for compulsory licensing of rights will be made.
In all matters of health and food safety social inclusion will be guiding.
Through proper integration of technology services and public policy, priority will be given to changing the Sindhu-Ganga plains into a main foodgrain producing area and protection farming in the original area of green revolution.
Farming bio-safety of crops, trees and farm and water creatures is very important because this is related to the work and income safety of most of the population and safety of food and trade of the nation.
Including crops, animal husbandry, fishery, forestry and farming-friendly micro organisms, an integrated national agriculture bio-safety system (NABS) will be established with the following goals.
In short, medium and long term weather forecast the national capacity is much more.
To give suggestions to farmers about proper land use in minimum time, agriculture-climate scientific advice issued from time to time by the trained workers at the village council level will be used.
In matters of sea fishing, with respect to height of the waves and the place of obtaining of schools of fish, available numbers will be conveyed to the fishermen.
Changes happening in the climate due to temperature, rain and adverse changes in sea levels is an upcoming topic.
Most experts agree to this that effect of global temperatures is worrisome which is clear from the melting of the glaciers and peaks of Antarctica and the Arctic.
Also there is being an increase in the frequency and intensity of coastal storms and cyclones.
As a result of these changes probably there is more possibility of famine and flood.
To reduce the vulnerability towards climatic changes, active measures will be taken.
Based on exemplary models, with respect to every main agricultural-climate area incidental projects and measures for optional use of land and water will be made ready.
In famine and flood prone areas, experienced farmers will be trained in the form of " climate managers " in the art of management of famine, flood and irregular monsoon.
Seeds: high quality seeds and disease free planting material in which in-vitro cultured propagules are present, is mandatory for crop productivity and safety.
Now in many crops hybrid varieties are being available.
Original (foundation) seed with respect to new sub-varieties will be offered to seed growers of basic level and their groups like co-operative societies and SHG.
Partnership in mutually beneficial farmer seed company will be encouraged.
Agricultural colleges will be encouraged for making syllabus on the main principles of trade in seed technology and trade and all practical courses.
One national seed grid will be established, by which, in the whole country, according to the specific expectations of different areas, supply of seeds will be assured.
Soil health: The key to increase the productivity of the farm is enrichment in soil health.
Every farmer family will be issued one soil health passbook on a permanent basis, in which along with corresponding advice, collective information about physical, chemical and microbiology related to the soil of their farm will be given.
For this purpose, to find the deficiency in the specific nutrient in the soil, many more laboratories will be established.
Including the leftovers of crop in the soil, soil organic (organic) matter will be increased.
With respect to the restoration of barren land and improving its nutrient capacity, proper technical advice will be made available.
For encouraging balanced use of fertilizers, fertilizer cost assessment policies will be reviewed.
Agricultural forestry will be encouraged for expert nutrient circulation, nitrogen assessment, bio resources boosting and improvement in exit system.
Insect repellents: there is a lot of damage every year of crops due to all three insects, pathogens and weeds.
Priority will be given to development, use and spread of environmentally safe and effective pesticides.
It is necessary to include use of chemical fertilizers in a Integrated Pest Management (IPM) system.
Useful quality control, safety measures and other regulatory systems will be made strong.
The sale of counterfeit and substandard level pesticides will be stopped and bio pesticides will be encouraged.
Machines: Farmers need machines and appliances specific to the area and crops so that timely sowing of seeds and handling of weeds and improving of after crop work can be done.
Women specially need favorable machines for themselves in which less labor is needed, productivity increases and time is saved and they can be used easily.
Agricultural graduates, agricultural entrepreneurs, and forward thinking farmers will be encouraged to make available appliances, tools, machinery, tractor and other big farm equipments on the basis of fee-rent.
Diagnosis about vaccines and serum: The main drawbacks in the provisions available now regarding important animal diseases will have to be eliminated.
Encouraging the public-private partnership, it is necessary to bring speed in bio-technology research in the field of vaccine development.
Fish seeds and food: High quality and disease-free fish seed is the key to successful national fishery.
Forward-thinking fishermen and their groups like self help groups (SHG) will be trained in fish seed breeding production and seeds and fish seed food will made available at sustainable costs.
For this proper technical help will be sought from National Fisheries Development Board and other agencies.
Fodder for animals: Insufficient nutrition only is the main reason for less production of milk in dairy animals.
For changing the cellulosic waste into a form of superior animal food through useful treatment and cultivation, planting of nutrition rich fodder plants and for spreading of technologies, encouragement will be given for both traditional and non-traditional techniques.
Other essential helpful services: Livestock areas will have to be made favorable for cleanliness and trees cleanliness.
A group of veterinary doctors will be trained so that co-operative service centers for the farmers can be established by which diseases will be known immediately and help will be available for their treatment and other animal medicare services.
Assistance services for the rights of women: For capacity building and livelihood for the women working on the farm there is a need for proper assistance services like day care and child care centers, nutrition, health and training.
There is a need for improvement in efficiency and outreach (outreach) of rural banking system.
For this, financial services at proper interest rates should reach the farmers at right time, in sufficient amounts and easily.
For facilitating good institutional loan for the farmers there is one agricultural loan policy of the Indian government.
Under the farmer credit card scheme measures will be taken for wide coverage of the farmers.
For encouraging production and reducing the loan risk, micro loan and micro insurance will be encouraged as one effective means.
In the rural financial system, loan co-operation has an important place and role and for improvement in co-operative loan institutions priority will be given to implement the recomendations of the Vaidyanathan Committee.
Because farming is very high risk financial activity, so farmers need consumer-friendly insurance schemes under which production meaning from sowing to post-crop activities will be included.
In the insurance, for protecting the farmers from financial calamities, mandi risk regarding all the crops should be included and in this way farming should be made financially practical.
To make the National Agricultural Insurance scheme more favorable for the farmers, efforts will be made to bring improvement in it.
In villages both types of information of loan and insurance is needed.
In this work, knowledge joints (Village Information Centers) can be helpful.
Encouragement will be given to bring awareness in farmers about insurance and loan.
Co-operative societies should work in the form of financial enterprises and not in work in the form of the extended department of the state.
They should achieve an industrious viewpoint, a competitive position through thr medium of useful entrepreneurial kendran and establish relations planned relations with public and private sector units.
A useful technique should be made through which a farmer can have more control on the market mediums and can get better opportunities of profit through co-operative societies and self help groups.
Looking at the financial liberalization and market competitiveness, co-operative societies will be need much more capital and other financial resources.
It is necessary to make the management of co-operative societies more able commercially in which there will be a clear demarcation of the duties of the elected members and the managers.
The difference between scientific information and field level work has become much more in recent years.
This lack of knowledge will be speedily taken away by which there can be an increase in farm production and profitability.
The Agricultural Science Center will give training in the area of post-crop technology, agricultural processing and cost increasing of primary products and will organize exhibitions from laboratories to farms so that alert jobs can be made available in villages.
Along with agricultural science center, with contact with farm schools there will be a rush in the process of technological upliftment of crops and animal husbandry, fishery and agricultural forestry.
There will be a rush in the process of modern agricultural systems.
With the help of modern agricultural systems, efforts will be made to bring together farmers, researchers, retail sellers and other stakeholders.
Specially at the district level and level below it, integration of the expansion efforts will be fixed.
By establishing new information joints in villages, the capacity of I C T will be used.
Other than this the service centers of the Information Technology Department of the Indian Government and the centers established through the state government and privately initiated programs will be included for broad and widespread development.
In the framework of ICT based information system, in this way, establishment of such village centers will be included along with others.
Through co-ordination broadband internet till the last mill and the last person, public radio or internet-mobile phone will be provided.
To ensure assured livelihood, it is necessary to include farmers, specially small and tertiary farmers and landless agricultural laborers under one broad social security scheme.
So the government will take necessary measures to implement a right social safety scheme.
In increasing the agricultural output and profitability, providing opportunities for assured and profitable marketing is the main facet of continuous progress.
From first only many important market reforms have been done by the central and state governments.
Minimum Support Price (MSP) system will be implemented in the whole country in a more effective way.
Market Intervention Scheme (MIS), in case of emergencies, will be made strong to be implemented quickly, specially in rain harvested areas in case of sensitive crops.
Efforts will be done to develop Unitary National Market by giving concession on internal restrictions.
All the controls and regulations obstructing in the growth of income of the farmers will be inspected and they will be removed.
Terminal Markets will be developed for agriculture through public-private partnership.
Farmers need correct advice about land-use decisions and inputs based on meteorological science, trading and management information.
To reduce the post-crop loss and to increase employment and income at the village level only, basic facilities will be given for agricultural processing and value addition.
To incentivize crop processing industry, producer groups and co-operative societies will be encouraged.
Obstacles will be ridden away for betterment of negotiating warehouse income.
The objective of the trade policy in agriculture will be safeguarding the livelihood of the farmer families and making the financial situation of the farmers better.
For this an effective livelihood safety system of farmers will be implemented.
In the whole country quality and trade literacy programs will be started.
To reduce the cost risk and stakeholders, to save themselves, specially the farmers from the risk, proper measures will be taken.
By propagating the information about the available opportunities for Foreign Agricultural trade and value addition, farmer associations and SHG will be helped to export at competitive terms.
Agricultural export will be made more strong, so that such areas can be made, where farmers will get maximum price for their produce as much as possible.
This is an established fact that by value addition in agricultural products, the level of income of the farmers will be increased.
So it is necessary to integrate their yield with processing and other value addition chain activities.
Also, in the country, post harvesting infrastructure is totally insufficient due to which maximum inefficiency and waste is produced.
Adding value to their income, joining them to the market, bringing about improvement in the post-crop management and encouraging demand oriented farming, food processing industry is capable of giving long term financial stability to the farmers.
Other than this, it is also necessary to make food processing activities modern.
So to make this process attractive, effective measures will be taken to make this food processing area modern and increase it's competitiveness.
Among the farmers class, the tribal farmers are in the worst situation.
All over the country most tribal groups are dependent on forests and animal husbandry for their livelihood.
To do farming in this (in many parts zoom farming) includes collecting fuel, fodder and many types of non-timber forest products.
To bring about improvement in their financial situation is the priority of the government.
For this purpose the following activities will be done.
To ensure opportunities of better livelihood for the herdsmen the following measures will be taken.
Pastures and drinking water sources will be secured for the livestock and feasibility will be increased as much as possible.
Herdsmen will be made part of all the local natural resources management programs.
In which, village, forest committees and joint forest management in included.
Small farmers in big numbers are engaged in plantation farming of garden crops like tea, coffee, rubber, cardamom, black pepper and vanilla.
Fluctuation in prices and competition with products imported from abroad are included in some of those big problems faced by them.
So to protect them from the fluctuation of the market, they can get help from one price stabilizing fund for garden crops.
It is necessary to give special attention to farmer and fishermen families in Andaman and Nicobar island clusters and the Lakshwadeep island clusters and in other island clusters.
Areas of technology, training and technology settlement and trade are included in their needs.
Transportation cost is also an issue in the island farming, specially with respect to perishable items like fish which is to be sold on the mainland.
There are ancient tribes on the Andaman and Nicobar islands who have one rich traditional information and knowledge.
Measures will be taken to recognize and reward their local knowledge in the areas of bio-diversity protection and traditional health care.
As much as possible, garden development programs will be implemented in the islands.
With the purpose of keeping the life and livelihood in the islands safe in situations of calamities like increasing sea levels and tsunami due to increasing global warming, measures like creating mangrove and non-mangrove bio-shields will be done.
In the urban areas, house gardens and nursery's will be encouraged.
Nutritious food related gardens will be given support so that requirements regarding nutritious food will be fulfilled.
In India the organic farming campaign is not getting enough help from the institute in the areas of resources, development and marketing and for this scientific help is expected more than chemical farming.
Agricultural Science Centers will be made ready to give training in organic farming.
To make the farmers favorable and capable, internationally accepted certification activities will also be made strong.
Organic farming will be encouraged in the chosen rain affluent areas along with expected assistance in which marketing is also included.
This will be assisted through contract farming also.
Food protection and quality yardstick should be in accordance to the standards of codex alimentarius because sometimes there has been reports of presence of lots of metal in organic fertilizers.
Farmers engaged in the the work of organic farming should be joined with important markets where they will get premium prices.
To establish farmer-clinics and farmer occupational centers for organic farming forward-thinking farmers and agricultural graduates will be given backing.
Green farming, in which integrated pest management, integrated nutrition fulfillment and integrated natural resources management is included, has always been recognized as going towards' Continuous Green Revolution '.
Opposed to organic farming, under green farming is included safe and minimum use of mineral fertilizers and chemical pesticides and varieties of crops developed by genetic research.
Green farming products will be classified and encouraged through certificates like is done in the case of organic farming.
It is necessary to understand the risks and benefits related to G M crops in a credible and transparent way.
In genetic research inclusion of such genes should be given priority by which help will be gotten in stopping of famine, salinity and other pressures.
Efficient water usage and improvement in nutrition and processing quality will also have to be given priority in the research work-list.
In relation to G M varieties of crops training will have to be started to be given in farming management techniques and bring about awareness.
Along with steep progress in horticulture, water and fertilizer usage, like economical fertilizer systems, with the help of nutritious material through irrigation systems there are opportunities of green house farming of vegetables, fruits and flowers.
Under agricultural occupational programs and horticulture development programs, to do greenhouse domestic horticulture, agricultural and home science graduates and other endeavors will be given assistance.
Required assistance will be given for such technologies by which help can be gotten in increasing income in water scarce areas.
Many measures have been taken by the government to reduce the agriculture related problems seen in many parts of the country.
This is important that special attention should be given on such areas so that risk can be reduced and encouragement can be given to inputs for long term agricultural systems.
In such areas, information combination and social help systems and marketing framework should be made strong.
To be exhaustively benefited under different schemes will also be encouraged.
Due to slow increase in non-agricultural field work, small and non-profitable from economics viewpoint cultivation has increased.
To increase the income of farmers, by increasing the productivity of small farms and through crop-livestock integrated farming systems, creating many opportunities for livelihood, processing with be given support.
For small and tertiary farmers, principles of economic scale should be made popular by farmer groups for increasing productivity and income.
Women will be encouraged to take part in such group activities.
Some methods are illustrated below which small and tertiary farmers can adopt in farming activities for work efficiency and cost efficiency.
Co-operative farming and co-operative societies have been successful with respect to dairy industry.
Marketing Co-operative Societies have generally been successful because its members see an advantage and so help.
Other forms of service co-operation are emerging, but the speed has to be increased.
So for doing work related to processing, value addition and marketing of agricultural products, small agricultural co-operatives will be encouraged and help will be given to them.
Co-operative farming by Self Help Groups (SHG): SHG's have been successful in encouraging small ventures organized by women with the help of small loans.
With respect to " green farming " with integrated pest management, integrated nutrient fulfillment, scientific water management and advanced crop harvesting technology this has been especially helpful.
SHG's will also be encouraged to make loans available to the farmers easily.
Contract farming: Farmers will be encouraged for ensuring assured and profitable marketing opportunities.
For fulfilling the need for commodity specific farming co-operative farming code or a model farming code will be developed.
In co-operative farming a farmer will not be deprived of his land under any circumstances.
To encourage farmer favorable co-operative farming system, state governments should make a review committee in which farmers also be included.
Farmer companies: Private limited companies registered under the Company (amendment) Act, 2002 are now coming into the field of bio software production mandatory for seed production, production of bio-fertilizers, bio-pesticides and other types of farming.
Small farmers and SHG's will be included in these companies in the form of stakeholders and not in the form of shareholders.
State farms: Along with this, use of state farms can be done for developing gene banks of live germplasm of local varieties of animal, sheep, poultry by which our livestock genetic reserve can be safeguarded.
By the following tactical solutions, welfare and safety of livelihood of the farmers will be assured.
Main emphasis will be given on development of floriculture, roots and bulbous crops, aromatic medicinal plants, apiculture and sericulture.
These products will be given proper market connection so that by these efforts the opportunities for employment and earning can be increased in the rural areas.
Market intervention scheme will continue and it will be strengthened.
To eradicate rural poverty and malnutrition, it is very important to grow foodgrains in the domestic form and make a policy for safeguarding well-defined food.
To strengthen food safety and to monitor it regularly government will form a cabinet committee on food safety.
There is a necessity for a rural non-agriculture employment initiative for the farmer families.
By this initiative all rural non-agricultural employment programs should be integrated so that there can be a convergence and co-ordination among them.
Uniting all concerned different agencies one integrated strategy will be adopted.
It was evening time.
Farmers had assembled in the panchayat house of the village.
There was one question on front of all - how will yield increase, how can there be growth in farming.
Mahesh had come back to the village after getting higher education of an agricultural university.
The farmers looked at Mahesh in amazement.
Mahesh then said - Yes, I am speaking the truth, if farmers do farming deliberately and with intelligence, then yield can increase.
The farmer who does the farming of a crop, he should have full knowledge of that.
He has to have good information as to the seeds of that crop grow in which kind of soil.
How should the tillage-sowing of that soil be done, when should it be given water and when should it be weeded, etc..
You have come studying a lot about farming.
Then you only tell all of us useful good things about crops.
Thinking something, Mahesh said - Good, I will first take pulses farming.
Because the importance of pulses in food is very large.
That crop is called pulses, by mashing which pulse are made.
Farming of wheat, barley and rice is done in every corner of the country.
In the same way crops of different pulses are also grown in the whole country.
But compared to other countries the average yield in our country is very less.
This yield can be increased manifold.
Its only solution is that farming be done in a scientific way.
Most farmers of our country just keep beating the rut.
They do efforts a lot but the yield in their farm is not more.
Mahesh said - Among pulses , the importance of split pigeon peas is most.
Split pigeon peas are eaten in all parts of our country.
Split pigeon peas is most used the in the eastern districts of Uttar Pradesh.
Split pigeon peas from Kanpur are considered the best.
The split pigeon peas from Kanpur are very delicious to eat.
It cooks fast, and gets mashed nicely.
But tell us this Mahesh Sir , since when did the introduction of split pigeon peas happen in our country ?
It is difficult to tell since when are people using split pigeon peas.
Some people are of the opinion that the birth place of the pigeon pea plant is India.
They give its proof that the large amount of farming of pigeon pea that is done in India , that much is not done in any other country in the world.
They also say that the use of split pigeon peas done in India is also more than other countries in the world.
The plant of pigeon pea was first in Africa.
They say, that the plant of pigeon pea was found growing like a wild plant in the valley of the Nile river in Africa.
The plant of pigeon pea is straight and stick-like.
This is counted under annual plants.
After the first yield, then not much yield is gotten.
From the viewpoint of shape we can call the pigeon pea plant as bushy plant.
In fertile soil it can grow up to a height of 7-8 feet.
The roots are tap in which small branches are attached.
The branches of the roots keep entering deep into the soil.
The roots are knotty.
The stalk is strong and stick-like.
There are branches in pigeon pea plant.
The length of all branches is same.
Some branches are long, but some seem to be making a big angle from the stalk.
Pods grow on pigeon pea plant, which are two to four inch long and about half inch thick.
The color of the raw leaves is dark green, but when they ripe, then taking some redness they become brown colored.
Every pod has two to five peas which come out immediately on pressing.
There are two main varieties of the plant of pigeon pea - (1) Arahar and (2) Toor.
T 17 - Its split pea is very tasty.
It cooks fast.
Its plants are long, which spread.
T1 - This variety of plants especially grow in the soil of Gorakhpur district.
T19 - The crop of this variety is especially grown in the central area of Uttar Pradesh.
Its plants are straight which become about 7 feet tall.
In one acre from 20 upto 23 maund yield is obtained.
Farming of pigeon pea can be done in every type of soil; but mainly light soil, heavy soil, rocky soil and black soil is considered good.
Mainly farming of pigeon pea needs such a soil from which water can be cleared easily.
Because in moisture the development of pigeon pea plant does not happen, and due to one type of pests they wilt fast.
So while choosing the soil, this should be kept in mind that the soil in which farming of pigeon pea is being done, water is not accumulated near by or there is no fear of water getting collected.
Climate - Soil in which there is moisture, near by which there is muck or water, it is definite that in such soil the development of the plant of pigeon pea cannot happen.
Farming of pigeon pea is done along with winter crops.
This time is very useful for this.
Because in these days there is moisture in the climate due to rains along with high temperature.
This type of climate is best for the farming of pigeon pea.
This only is the reason that farming of pigeon pea is done along with winter crop.
But farming of pigeon pea also has to see the days of winter.
Whenever the temperature becomes less, or cold increases, then by that farming of pigeon pea is adversely affected.
There are two ways in which farming of pigeon pea is done, mixed and separate.
The meaning of mixed is, that along with the crop of pigeon pea other crops are along planted, like maize, millet, corn, etc..
The best way is, that farming of pigeon pea be done with shuffling.
Where farming of pigeon pea is done with maize, millet and corn, there, as required, shuffling should be done among them.
Somewhere farming of pigeon pea is done separately also.
For good yield preparation of the farm also should be done well.
When the crop of pigeon pea is being grown with maize or millet, then the preparation of the farm should be done according to the crop of maize or millet.
When this crop is grown with oilseed crops or separately, then the farm should be prepared according to the crop of pigeon pea.
Generally for the crop of pigeon pea tilling with indigenous ploughs for three times is good.
After second-third tilling, on soil being leveled, patela should be done.
Only one tilling by new types of imported ploughs is enough.
The sowing time for the crop of pigeon pea is not same in all regions.
In Uttar Pradesh the crop of pigeon pea is sowed in the first week of July.
But in south India sowing of the crop of pigeon pea is started in the month of May.
Till whole of July the crop is sowed.
In Madhya Pradesh the process of sowing the crop continues from June till July.
In Bihar people sow the crop of pigeon pea in the last month of July.
Ideally all the farmers are familiar with the seed of pigeon pea, but lot of precaution should be taken before sowing the seeds.
Because there is a type of disease in the seed of pigeon pea, which is called Wilt meaning dryness.
This is not easily captured by sight.
It is better to take advice from experts before sowing the seeds.
The amount of seeds and the way of sowing depends on the variety of the seed.
In mixed crops per acre up to two to two and half quintal seeds are enough.
For growing separate crop per acre up to six to seven quintal seeds are required.
In the farming of ' toor ' seeds more than this are needed.
For the crop of pigeon pea sowing is done in two ways - (1) by sprinkling way, and (2) in the form of lines.
In separate farming of pigeon pea work is done only through sprinkling way.
In this way seeds are sprinkled by hand in the farm.
In the rows of pigeon pea a distance of up to one and half to two inch is measured.
The distance of main crop and rows of pigeon pea is up to six to ten inches.
Fertilizer: There is no need specially for fertilizer for growing the crop of pigeon pea.
Even then if use of calcium (lime) and phosphorus is done then good yield is obtained.
Per acre 32 pounds of phosphorus should be used.
To make the soil rich for the crop of pigeon pea use of super-phosphate, basic slag (Mal) and bone mill (powder of bones) should be done in it.
Almost 15 days before sowing the seeds fertilizer should be put in the soil.
By this the plants shoot up and help is gotten in their development and growth.
After fertilizer now tell about irrigation also.
Without irrigation there cannot be good yield.
But the crop of pigeon pea does not need special form of irrigation.
There are tow main reasons for this.
One is this, that the crop of pigeon pea is grown in those days when in the air there is lot of moisture.
So the crop of pigeon pea gets water from the air only.
Second is that, the roots of pigeon pea enter very deep inside the soil.
So they keep taking water according to their requirement from inside the soil only.
Even then in some special situations attention should be given on the irrigation of pigeon pea.
Weeding and digging of the crop of pigeon pea should be done with the same crop with which it is being grown.
Generally , digging of the plants is done up to the age of three months.
Usually digging is done only in those farms in which the seeds are sown in the row pattern.
Farms in which the seeds are sown in the sprinkling way , it is difficult to do digging.
In digging trowel, hoe, cultivator and harrow are used.
The digging by trowel is expensive.
In it more time is also taken.
The development of the crop of pigeon pea happens very slowly.
More time is also needed for the crop to get ready.
So it is not surprising for grass-weeds to grow in the farm.
Whenever this happens, the useless grass-weeds should be destroyed.
Which thing is there in this world which does not get affected by disease and ailment.
The crop of pigeon pea needs to be protected from many diseases and ailments.
So to get a good crop of pigeon pea it is necessary to have knowledge about this.
The crop of pigeon pea gets affected in two ways - (1) by diseases, and (2) by pests.
Among diseases' Fusarium wilt ' is dangerous.
This happens due to a type of pests which are called ' Fusarium Udum '.
This begins in the roots so roots decay.
The plant wilts.
There are three types of pests which affect the crop - (1) pests of leaves, (2) pests of legumes, and (3) flies of legumes.
The pests of leaves are called " Ucilous cretica ".
These pests attack the upper part of the leaf and make a net.
These pests can be recognized by looking at the webs on the leaves only.
To catch and kill them is the only easy solution for their destruction.
In the harvesting of the crop mainly two things are to be focused on - 1, time of harvesting, 2, way of harvesting.
The crop of pigeon pea should be cut only when the legumes are fully ripened.
But while harvesting the crop attention should be paid on this that the legumes should not disperse and fall out.
In Mysore state of south India the legumes are removed from the plant before to protect them from falling out.
But in north India nowhere is work done in this system.
The harvesting of pigeon pea is done by sickle or blade.
In foreign countries this work is done by machines called ' mower ' and combine '.
Cutting is done very close to the ground.
It is very essential to pay attention on the protection of the legumes at the time of cutting the stalk.
Filling the peas in bags , (they) are closed.
The bags are kept in such a place where there is proper level of heat.
By keeping in places with moisture and humidity the peas decay and they get infested with insects.
The yield and its use of any crop only has the most importance.
The crop of pigeon pea is of three types - (1) short term, (2) long term, and (3) mixed.
Pigeon pea is use in the form of pulses.
By splitting and skinning the seeds, two pulses are gotten.
The work of splitting and skinning is done by big machines.
The trading of split pigeon peas is done on high scale.
The pulses are useful for humans to eat and the animals eat the skin with great fondness.
The stalk of pigeon pea is used for making baskets, making roofs and in the form of fuel.
The pulse of pigeon pea is famous for its nutritious content also.
After split pigeon peas, split black peas are more popular.
In Punjab split black peas are only used.
People from western Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Madras also make more use of split black peas.
Black pea is different in its shape-type.
By seeing black pea only people recognize that it is black pea.
Its black and green color is very attractive.
But sometimes seeing green gram and black pea together, there is a confusion in recognizing them both.
Because both black peas and green gram are similar in shape-type and form-color.
But seeing by removing the skin, black gram is seen clearly.
The color pulse of black gram has yellowness which gives its identity different from green gram.
The birth place of black gram is India.
From India only the spread and promotion of black gram has happened in other countries of the world.
The experts in agriculture after investigating have declared that the plant of black gram is related to the plant of Papilionaceae of the Leguminosae family.
In Hindi we can call it a bushy plant.
It is bushy in shape-type.
It is spreading and grows up to one to two feet tall.
The stalks of black gram are straight and have branches.
The stalks and branches are full of long brown colored hair.
Due to these hair only in some countries people call black gram ' Uli paaydaal '.
The leaves are of attractive dark green color.
Like leaves the flowers which are in bunches are beautiful.
When the legumes come on the branches, then it is such a sight.
The legumes are furry, which are up to two to three inch in length.
The farming of black gram is done in two ways - (1) in mixed form, and (2) separately.
In both the forms separate soil is needed.
But there are only two forms of it - loose and sandy.
For independent farming of black gram sandy clayey soil is the best.
A good crop of black gram can also be grown in silted soil.
For the mixed form, somewhere sandy clayey and somewhere sandy soil is considered good.
The crop of black gram is grown in two forms - 1, In the form of summer crop, 2, In the form of winter crop.
In the form of summer crop, sowing is done in the month of February and harvesting in the month of May.
Farming of black gram can be done in the form of summer crop only in those areas where even in the winter days there is heat.
The crop of black gram of summer has the fear of damage due to cold and frost.
So the crop of summer cannot be grown in those areas where the temperature is very low.
The places in which the temperature is low, there a good crop of black gram cannot be grown.
In such places the pea of black gram is very light and small.
The crop of black gram is grown in two ways - (1) in mixed form, (2) separately.
When the crop is to be grown in mixed form, then it can be alternated with maize, millet and corn.
But when the crop of black gram is to be grown separately then it is more useful to alternate it with wheat.
On alternating with wheat if a fast growing variety of seed is sown, then good yield can be obtained.
The crop of black gram does not need that much ploughing , as much (is needed) for wheat.
Generally, three times ploughing by indigenous ploughs is considered good.
After every ploughing trowel should be given.
By this the soil becomes crumbly.
If soil flipping ploughs are used, then the farm gets ready in two ploughings only.
From the intention of pulses mostly people do farming of black gram in mixed form only.
Black gram is mixed with other pulses crops - pigeon pea, cotton, maize, millet, savan, kondaa and corn etc..
In growing the crop in mixed form mostly the sowing of seeds is done by sprinkling method.
But this method is not proper.
If for sowing seeds the method of machines is adopted, then it is good.
If it is not easy to sow seeds by machines, then should be sown in rows in troughs behind he plough.
While sowing seeds it should be kept in mind, that the distance between them is same.
By not keeping in mind the distance somewhere the plants grow more, and somewhere the farm seems empty.
In the form of separate crop also, the farming of black gram is done for pulses only.
But there are very few areas or regions, where the crops of black gram are grown separately.
If the crop of black gram is grown separately for pulses, then in that too the sowing of seeds has to be done according to mixed crop.
Before sowing the seeds if advice is taken from government agricultural experts, then it is good.
At the time of choosing the seeds for sowing, the said recommendations of the regional governments should definitely be taken into consideration.
In sowing, it is also very essential to take care of the amount of seeds and the distance of the rows.
On growing the crop in the mixed form per acre up to two to three kilo seeds should be put.
In separate crop the result of the seed per acre is up to four to six kilos.
On sowing with the sprinkling method per acre up to six to eight kilo seed is required.
The sowing of seeds is done in three ways - (1) by sprinkling method (2) behind the ploughs, and (3) by machines.
For the crop of black gram it is necessary to put fertilizer in it after getting the farm ready.
By fertilizers help is gotten in the development of the plant, and the yield is good.
For good yield of black gram nitrogen based fertilizer is good.
By putting fifteen kilo per acre nitrogen based fertilizer, the fertility of the farm increases more.
After sowing by putting up to twenty to twenty-five kilo silicate (fertilizer) per acre help is gotten in the development of the plant.
But that fertilizer should be put at the time, when plants come up in the farm and become little big.
Farming of black gram is done in those days when they are the days of raining, and there is enough moisture in the soil.
So generally the crop of black gram does not need irrigation.
In the days of dryness when it does not rain or the ground is very dry then there is benefit in doing irrigation.
Four-five weeks after sowing the seeds, weeding of the crop of black gram should definitely be done once.
After this if necessity is seen then second time also weeding-digging can be done.
Use of trowel, hoe and cultivator is done for weeding-digging.
In doing weeding-digging by trowel more expense and labor is needed.
Cultivator are driven by bullocks.
But use of cultivator can be done in only those farms, in which sowing is done in the form of rows.
For weeding-digging of farms sowed by sprinkling method, hand trowel is good.
There are it's two main enemies damaging the crop of black gram - (1) diseases and (2) pests.
Among diseases' with harad ' and ' with ghaati ' are two main.
When the attack of these diseases happens, then white and dusky lines are formed on the leaves of black gram.
The solution for eradication from these diseases is, that the leaves on which the white and dusky lines are seen, those should be cut and destroyed.
Among pests' baalkeet ' and kavachkeet ' are main.
Baalkeet are furry small in shape.
The female is very smart in laying eggs on the leaf (and) increasing its number.
These pests eat the leaves.
Consequently the crop gets destroyed.
To destroy these pests bright lighting should be done in the farm at night.
In bright light the pests on their own fall off leaving the crop.
And burning die.
The crop of black gram is of two types depending on its variety - 1, short term, and 2, long term.
The short term crop ripening gets ready in two and half months.
The time of its harvesting is August and September.
Every long term crop according to its virtue gets ready by October to November.
The harvesting of the crop of black gram should be done only after the ripening of the legumes.
But legumes should not ripen much such that the peas fall off at the time of harvesting.
So harvesting should be done before fully ripening.
In cutting the crop use of sickle should be done.
In some places instead of cutting the plant, the legumes are picked and they are dried in barns.
Then using a chaff cutter the peas and chaff are separated.
Filling the peas in bags are closed.
Sometimes from the barn itself the bags of peas are sold.
Sometimes the bags are kept in the houses to sell and for the purpose of personal use.
Generally the yield of high quality seeds of black gram is eight to ten pounds per acre.
From normal seeds up to five to six pounds of yield is gotten per acre.
Black gram is used in the form of pulses.
The pulse of black gram has the capacity to increase strength and virility.
People make papadums, fried balls, dumplings, and imarati etc. of black gram too.
In the south, mixing black gram with rice a special food-item is made, which is very tasty.
Like black gram, green gram is also used for pulses.
Green gram is of two types - with skin and skinned.
Both the pulses are light and digestive.
Often green gram pulse is given as diet for patients.
Green gram is India's own pulse.
The birth place of its plant is India.
From here only its publicity and spread happened in foreign countries.
Farming of green gram in some amount is done in almost all states in India.
Green gram is specially grown in regions like Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan.
The plant of green gram is very much similar to the plant of black gram.
The plant of green gram is up to two to two and half feet in length.
The leaves are bigger and lesser than leaves of black gram.
The stalks are somewhat bigger and thicker than stalks of black gram.
The length of the legumes is almost up to three to four inches.
Agricultural scientists have developed many varieties of green gram.
But from the viewpoint of seeds two varieties among them are considered important - (1) green color ones and (2) golden color ones.
Other than this, black, brown and grey color green gram is also considered good.
The farming of green gram is done mixing with other crops.
So for the yield of green gram special type of soil is not needed.
At the time of choosing the soil for this, that crop has to be kept in mind with which it is to be grown.
Generally for the farming of green gram all types of soil are good.
Only loose and sandy soil is such a soil which is not useful for the farming of green gram.
Other than this in all types of soil farming of green garm can be done.
This only is the reason that the crop of green gran is grown in all states.
The crop of green gram is grown with both summer and winter crops.
Along with winter crops the sowing of green gram is done in the months of June and July.
In these days along with moisture there is lot of heat in the air too.
During the days of winter crop it is raining.
So it is certain, that for the yield of green gram, water is essential.
With the summer crop sowing of green gram is done in the month of October.
In these days cold starts, so there is moisture in the air.
But in those places where there is more cold, on growing green gram with the summer crops, good yield is not got.
Because for good yield of green gram, along with moisture, high level of temperature is also needed.
The crop of green gram is grown with summer and winter crops only.
So it can be alternated with summer and winter crops only.
Alternating is useful.
By alternating crops the yield is more.
Green gram can be alternated with maize, millet and corn.
Places in which crop of green gram is grown with rice crops, there rice and green gram can be alternated.
On growing the crop of green gram with summer crops its alternation should be done with summer crops.
Alternation of green gram can also be done with pigeon pea and cotton.
The crop of green gram is grown with other crops.
So for the crop of green gram, farm does have to be gotten ready separately.
The crop with which the crop of green gram is grown, along with the preparation of the farm of that, the preparation of the farm of crop of green gram also gets done.
Even then to make the soil loose trowel should be used after tilling for two times in the farm.
For the crop of green gram two times tilling is enough.
When crop of green gram is to be grown in the farm of rice, then after digging of rice without tilling the seeds should be sprayed in the farm.
The topic of sowing seeds comes in front after the farm is ready.
If good crop has to be grown then attention should be paid on two things - 1, Good quality of seeds, and 2, proper method of sowing.
There are many types of seeds of good varieties of green gram.
Which has been announced by the agriculture-department of the Government of India after a lot of investigation.
Sowing is done in two ways - by sprinkling method, and in rows.
For growing the crop of green gram in the farm of rice, sprinkling way is only used.
But where the crop of green gram is to be grown with other crops, there seeds of green gram are sown mixing with the seeds of the other crop.
These types of mixed seeds also are sown by sprinkling and row-method.
In the sprinkling method of sowing attention is not paid to the distance.
But in sowing in the row method, a distance of one and half feet is kept between two rows.
In the same way in distance between two plants also there is a difference of one and half feet.
For the crop of green gram there is not special need to put fertilizer in the farm.
Because this is a mixed crop.
The crop with which the crop of green gram be grown, fertilizer should be put in the farm according to the nature of that.
Even then if need arises silicate (fertilizer) should be used.
By using silicate (cow dung, bones etc.) the development of the plant happens well.
In this way, good yield is obtained.
There is very little need of irrigation for the crop of green gram.
There are two main reasons for this.
One is this, that the crop of green gram is grown in those days when the days are of rain.
And the other is this, that its roots go very deep inside the soil.
The crop of green gram keeps getting the water from the rain, along with that, its roots taking water from inside the ground keep fulfilling their requirement.
So the crop of green gram needs very little water from canal or well, even then the crop of green gram grown with summer crop sometimes can need water.
When the crops start drying due to decrease in moisture, then by doing irrigation, the plant gets a new life.
The crop of green gram takes a long time to get ready.
So in crop of green gram, there is no need for weeding and digging specially.
Even then, in mixed crop, weeding and digging should be done based on the main crop.
The diseases and pests of green gram are the same, which affect black gram, that is like black gram, green gram also has the fear of getting damaged by two main diseases and pests.
Among diseases one is called ' dhaariwala ' and other ' haradewala '.
On infliction of the disease white or brownish colored lines appear on the leaves.
The result of these diseases is this, that the leaves becoming weak become dry.
From the point of view of getting ready of the crop of green gram there are two types - (1) that gets ready in short time, and (2) that gets ready in long time.
Short term crops get ready in two-and-half-three months.
The crops which are sowed in July, get ready in October.
The crops sowed in September are long term , they get ready in February.
The cut plants are sent to barns after tying them in bales.
After some days when the plants become dry, a chaff chopper of bullocks is used on it after spreading them.
Making the powder fly in the air, the chaff and peas are separated.
Per acre five pounds of yield of green gram is obtained, and chaff ten pounds.
In some places per acre the peas become ten pounds, and chaff ten pounds too.
Mostly it is seen, that there is good yield in long term crops compared to small term crops.
The peas obtained by great efforts are kept tied in bags or filled in pots.
The seeds of green gram have more fear of getting damaged by pests.
The pests affect only those areas either which are dirty, or where there is moisture.
So efforts should be made to protect the bags and pots filled with peas from moisture.
Green gram is specially used as pulses.
Split green gram is very light and digestive.
Split green gram has many nutrients, which are very useful for the body.
Some people consider it a foreign plant.
Whatever, the farming of red lentils is done specially in many states in India.
Yield of red lentils is good in regions like Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Punjab, Bengal and Madras and Rajasthan.
Like other pulses Indian Agricultural Experts have researched a lot about red lentils too.
Testing has been done in many regions in India about red lentils.
Generally also there are two varieties of red lentils - one big seeded, and other small seeded.
The big red lentil of big seeds is considered good.
There is a lot of similarity between the red lentil and chickpea plant.
So it will not be improper to call the plant of red lentil a bushy plant.
The plant of red lentil is 7 inch to 1 foot tall.
The roots are fibrous and stalks have branches.
Leaves are small and spiky.
Flowers are blue color and legumes a little bigger than chickpea in shape.
From the color-form and size-type of red lentil and chickpea, it is understood that both these are of one family.
All crops have their own different qualities and nature.
Red lentil also has its own nature.
So red lentils also needs a special type of soil.
For good yield of red lentils it is beneficial to sow it in clayey moist or moist soil.
Generally its sowing is done in the month of October, and by end of February and March ripening the crop gets ready.
According to the quality and nature of red lentils, for it moist and warm climate is needed.
But more moisture is also damaging for red lentils.
Places in which it gets very cold, or in winter days when frost falls, then there is adverse effect on the yield of red lentils.
In some places people sow it with mustard and barley.
In some places with other grains, like - red lentils are also grown with linseed and wheat.
In some places after cutting the crop of rice, red lentil farming is done separately also.
In the same way, the farms in which in some one year rice may be sown, then second year, by sowing red lentils in it, good yield is obtained.
After cutting the crop of rice if the crop is to be grown in the field of rice, then in the preparation of farm, ploughing is not necessary.
In growing mixed crop, the preparation of the field is to be done according to the main crop only.
If the crop is to be grown with barley, then the field should be prepared based on barley.
For good yield of red lentils, it is not necessary for the soil to be crumbly.
The crop of red lentil grows well in lumpy soil.
The sowing of the seeds of red lentils is done in two ways - (1) sprinkling (2) row-wise.
Those people who grow the crop of red lentils along with the crop of rice, or after cutting the crop of rice in the same farm, they use only the sprinkling method.
In many places where farming of red lentils is done independently, the seed is sowed by the sprinkling method only.
In many places, for growing with mixed crops also this same method is used.
For good yield, good seeds are required.
Just by doing sowing in a scientific way good yield is not obtained.
The agriculture experts of the Indian Government have recommended N.P.No 11 for seeds of red lentils.
By using these seeds in sowing, good yield is obtained.
For the crop of red lentils there is a need for fertilizer.
By use of 20 kilo fertilizer per acre the yield of the field increases.
If crop of red lentils is to be grown in the farm of rice, and if in it bone powder fertilizer has been used, then there is no need to put fertilizer the second time.
Agriculture experts say, that there are a certain kind of insects under the ground in the farm of red lentils, which taking nitrogen from the soil keep supplying it to the plant.
So nitrogen fertilizer should not be put in the farm of red lentils.
Fertilizer should be used at the time of preparing the fields and after the plants have sprouted.
Sometimes in farming only red lentils, in the farms, wild grass-blades grow.
They stop the growing of the plant.
So whenever wild grass-blades or weeds grow, then they should be totally destroyed by weeding.
If by some reason the soil of the field becomes hard, then it should be made lumpy and soft by digging.
The plant of red lentil is one such plant, in which there is strength to tackle all kind of diseases.
Even then sometimes' fungal ' disease, which many people also call rust, proves damaging for the crop of red lentils.
The attack of this destructive disease happens on the leaves and stalk.
By which the leaves become dry and stalks become weak.
To protect the crop from this destructive disease the diseased plant should be dug up and thrown.
Sometimes some special type of insects from the moth family also harm the crop of red lentils.
The attack of these insects happens on the legumes of red lentil.
These insects can be destroyed by spraying water mixed with kerosene.
When the legumes ripen the plant should be dug up.
Some people cut the crop with sickle too.
It is necessary to keep this in mind that the peas of the legumes do not fall off in the field.
The cut crop should be kept together in the barn tied in bales.
On drying, after spreading a daayam of bullocks should be run over it.
Later the peas and the husk should be separated.
The peas of red lentils are kept filled in bags or pots.
The places where the bags and pots are kept are filled with husk.
This is done so that, the effect of the moisture of the walls and floor does not fall on the bags and pots.
Because due to moisture the peas become bad and get infected with pests.
Red lentils is used in the form of split peas.
Split red lentils are of two types - (1) whole black red lentil with skin and (2) skinned whole red lentils.
Effect of black red lentil is cold and the effect of skinned red lentil is warm.
In winter days people eat skinned split red lentils more.
Chickpea is the main yield of India.
In our country farming of chickpea is done in two crore acres of land.
There is no such region where farming of chickpea is not done.
Chickpea is specially grown in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh.
The crop of chickpea is grown in 60 thousand acres of land in Uttar Pradesh alone.
Chickpea is a bushy plant.
It is 8 inches to one and half feet in length.
The stalk is straight and branched.
The leaves are small and dentate.
The flowers of chickpea are blue and small in shape.
The legumes are attached to the flowers only.
The legumes are small, in which is the seed of chickpea.
In each legume there is one to three peas.
The fruits are attached to the stalks, which are covered with leaves.
From the viewpoint of color and peas there are many varieties of chickpeas, in which the white and yellow color chickpea is considered main.
White chickpea is called kabuli chickpea.
Yellow color chickpea grows maximum in Uttar Pradesh.
Other than these there are red and black color chickpeas too.
For farming of chickpea, land with moist, loose moist and moldy soil is good.
Light soil is not good for farming of chickpea.
Chickpea is also grown on the banks of rivers or islands.
Sowing of chickpea happens in October and in March the crop is harvested.
For the yield of chickpea moisture is needed along with warm climate.
In mixed form chickpea is grown with linseed, mustard, barley and wheat.
By doing farming of chickpea with these crops the yield of chickpea is good.
Because there are such types of nutrients in these crops, which prove very useful for chickpea.
On farming chickpea in a mixed form, the crops with which it is being grown should be shuffled.
Like, one year it is being grown with barley, then second year it should be grown with wheat, mustard or linseed in the same field.
If chickpea has to be grown separately, chickpea, paddy and chickpea, wheat and corn and hari-chari should be shuffled.
By shuffling with mustard and linseed also good crop is obtained.
The crop of chickpea is grown in two types of fields - (1) In the field of winter crops, and (2) in independent fields.
If farming if chickpea is to be done in the field of winter crops then after cutting the crop the seed should be sprayed after ploughing the field once.
Sowing of chickpea is done after the rains are over.
Sowing starts in the first week of October.
Sowing is also done on banks of rivers or islands later.
But if sowing is done earlier then there is a possibility of the crop being good.
For good crop it is necessary to have good seeds.
The agriculture experts of the Indian Government have announced many advance types of seeds of chickpea.
They have demonstrated different seeds for different regions.
Sowing of seeds of chickpea is done in two ways - spraying and row-wise.
In Punjab the seed is sowed by spraying only.
But this method cannot be called scientific.
If seed be sowed in rows then the crop can grow well.
How can good yield be obtained without putting fertilizer?
For the crop of chickpea nitrogen and prasphutik fertilizer is useful.
The crop becomes good by putting 20 kilo Nitrogen fertilizer per acre.
Good yield of chickpea is obtained by putting cow dung fertilizer.
Bone powder and super phosphate can also be used for fertilizer.
By putting two and half pounds of bone powder per acre, the fertility of the field increases a lot.
The crop of chickpea is grown in both ways, mixed and separate.
On growing in mixed form irrigation should be done according to the main crop.
Like, if farming of chickpea is done with wheat or barley then irrigation should be done according to wheat or barley.
On banks of rivers and islands there is no need for irrigation.
In winter days there is a fear of frost affecting the crop of chickpea.
But when in winter days it rains, then the fear of frost affecting keeps going.
If there are no rains, then to protect the crop from frost, irrigation should be definitely done.
There is no need to do weeding-digging for the crop of chickpea.
But sometimes when wild grass-blades grow in the field then it is beneficial to do weeding-digging.
More than weeding-digging, there is more importance of clipping in the crop of chickpea.
This means that when the plants of chickpea become 6-7 inches, then their top sprouts should be cut.
The effect of this is that more branches sprout in the plant and more flowers-fruits are also borne.
There are two main enemies of the crop of chickpea - (1) disease and (2) pests.
Among the diseases of the crop of chickpea ' dryness' is the most dangerous disease.
Some people also call it ' wilt '.
This dries the plants.
Agricultural scientists have discussed two reasons for its cropping up.
One it crops up at that time, when there is deficit in the nutrients in the soil of the farm.
Or it happens then, when lots of useless grass-blades grow in the field.
Whichever may be the reason, but the plants on which the wilt disease is seen should be put away from the field uprooting them.
Because such plants also affect other plants.
Among other diseases of the crop of chickpea ' rust ' meaning ' hardaa ' and ' blight ' meaning fungal disease are more dangerous.
The other enemies of the crop of chickpea are special kind of insects.
These insects are of the butterfly family.
They, engulfing the leaves in circle, eat them.
It is very much needed to protect the crop from these destructive insects.
For destroying them the affected plants should be destroyed after selecting them or efforts should be made to destroy them by spraying water mixed with kerosene.
They enter inside the fruits also, and eat the peas.
To protect the crop from these caterpillars they should be killed in the egg stage only.
Then those caterpillars are not born from them, which destroy the crop.
The crop of chickpea ripening gets ready to be cut by the end of phalgun or beginning of chaitra.
When the leaves start becoming of yellow color, then it is to be understood, that now the crop has started to ripen.
Along with leaves, chickpea starts becoming dry, and legumes also become of yellow color.
After madaai when the weather becomes favorable , then using winnowing basket or basket winnowing is done.
At some places winnowing is done with a machine called ' winnower '.
By winnowing the peas and husk are separated.
Per acre 10 to 15 pounds of yield of chickpea is obtained.
For keeping the chickpea safe people keep them in warehouses, filling them in bags, or filling them in pots.
Chickpea is used in many ways.
Like - (1) in the form of split peas , (2) making flat breads , (3) making various types of side dishes.
Many people mixing the flour of chickpea with wheat or barley make flat breads.
Scientists say, that such type of flat breads are highly beneficial for health.
What to say about split chickpeas!
Many people mixing split chickpeas with mixed pulses cook (it).
Many people eat split chickpeas after cooking.
Chickpea flour is made from split chickpeas, from which many types of salty and sweet savories are made.
Not only humans, but animals also eat chickpeas fondly.
Chickpea is very nutritious.
Labor doing animals get back their lost strength eating chickpeas only.
Whatever, peas have been grown in India from ancient times.
Farming of peas is done in all parts of India in large amounts.
The plants of peas climb up on getting support, if not spread on the ground.
In most farms the plants are spread on the ground.
The stalks are 2 to 4 inch tall, hollow and of deep green color.
Branches grow from the stalk, which bear the leaves.
The number of leaves is from one to six.
Flowers are white, pink and light blue in color.
The legumes grown on the flowers.
Which are 1 to 4 inch long.
Every legume has 4 to 8 peas.
The peas are white, sticky and round.
Agricultural experts in India have done a lot of research about peas.
After research they have declared many varieties of it.
According to experts N.P. 29, and N.P. 163 are the main varieties of peas.
Indigenous peas is a fertilizer hungry crop.
The soil in which there is more amount of phosphorus and calcium (limestone), that is considered good for the farming of peas.
Peas is sowed in the month of Ashwin.
Ripening gets ready in February and March month.
From the time of sowing to harvesting many kinds of changes occur in the climate - (1) warm (2) moist (3) cold and (4) warm.
Peas has to survive in all these types of climates.
In the beginning peas needs warm-humid climate.
More cold is not good for peas.
In winter days when in some years there is more cold or snow falls then there is bad effect on the crop of peas.
The crop of peas is grown in two ways - (1) along with summer crops (2) in the farms of winter crops.
Indigenous peas is sown with barley and wheat.
At some places (it) is sown with mustard and linseed.
By growing the crop in the mixed form there is no need for shuffling.
The preparation of the farm should be done according to the main crop, with which peas are to be grown.
If the crop of peas is to be grown separately then the preparation should be done keeping in mind the nature of peas.
For a good crop of peas it is necessary to do good ploughing of the farm.
Generally it is good to plough the farm of peas two-three times with an indigenous plough.
To make the soil loose it is necessary to run a trowel after ploughing.
For growing imported peas, people make canals after ploughing.
This makes it easy to irrigate the plants.
At some places in farms of indigenous peas also canals are made after sowing.
In sowing of peas mainly three things should be concentrated on - (1) time (2) seeds (3) method of sowing seeds.
The sowing of peas is generally done in the month October.
But in places where winter starts early, there people sow the seeds of peas in September only.
In hilly areas, where the climate is cold, crop of peas is grown in summer days too.
Peas is leguminous crop.
It takes nitrogen at the rate of 40 kilos per acre from the soil itself.
So there is no need to put fertilizer in the farms of peas in which there are elements of nitrogen.
Phosphorus and calcium rich fertilizers are more useful for farms of peas.
Use of fertilizer of cow dung also has very good effect on the yield of peas.
After sowing if proper growth of the plant is not happening then using phosphorus and lime helps the development of the plant.
People also call peas grown with the intent of vegetables as imported peas.
Imported peas specially needs water.
Because in those days it is warm.
By not irrigating there is a fear of it's plant becoming dry.
For good yield of imported peas it is necessary to irrigate it two times.
Yield of local peas also is good by irrigating once.
On sowing with mixed crop the irrigation of peas is done along with the main crop.
There is not much need for weeding-digging in the crop of peas.
Even then if some grass-blades grow in the field or if the plants are too close then the plants benefit by weeding-digging.
Attention should be definitely given on weeding-digging for the yield of imported peas because imported peas is an unseasonal crop.
It's existence or non-existence depends of the activities of farming only.
To protect peas from frost it is necessary to irrigate it.
Damage to legumes of peas is also done by birds and animals.
To protect the crop from them, guarding of the crop has to be done in a proper way.
Small insects of the family of moths also damage the crop of peas.
People start using legumes of peas for making vegetable in the month of January itself.
But cutting of the entire crop is done from March until April.
When the legumes become ripe and the stalks start to dry, then the crop should be harvested.
By letting to dry more in the field there is a fear of the peas falling out during cutting.
Fifteen to twenty pounds of yield of peas is obtained per acre.
Where there is no provision for irrigation, there the yield is only 7-8 pounds per acre.
In good fields upto 40 pounds of green legumes are obtained per acre.
Use of peas is mainly done in two ways - (1) in the form of split peas, and (2) in the form of vegetable.
Till recently farming of soya bean was not done in India.
Now its farming is being done in the low lying areas of the mountains of Himalayas.
Soya bean is a foreign plant.
In the scientific language soya bean is called ' Glycin max '.
It's plant is straight and of green color.
The height of the plant is 1 foot to 6 feet.
The stalk is branched and furry.
The leaves are three-lobbed.
The color of the flowers is white or yellow.
The seeds are inside the legumes.
The length of the legumes is 1 to 1 inch.
The legumes are furry.
The color of the seeds is yellow, green, black or brown.
The seeds of some varieties are white and buff colored also.
From the viewpoint of seeds there are three main varieties of soya bean - (1) yellow-green colored soya bean (2) white colored soya bean (3) buff and black colored soya bean.
The crop of soya bean can be grown in all kinds of farms.
Even then light moist soil is best for the farming of soya bean.
Farming of soya bean is also done on the mountains at the height of 4 thousand to 7 thousand feet.
In such places also good yield of soya bean can be grown, where water stays collected.
Because pool of water does not have bad effect on the yield of soya bean.
The farming of soya bean is still in it's nascent stage in India.
Agricultural-scientists are busy researching about it now.
Till now this has not been known, as to, by shuffling with which crops is good yield of soya bean obtained.
To grow a crop in mixed form the field has to be prepared according to the main crop.
Soya bean is a summer crop.
It's sowing is done in the middle of June.
At some places people sow the seeds in July too.
Agricultural scientists have recommended Type 3, Type 6, Type 10 for seeds.
So for sowing efforts should be made to get these seeds only.
Advanced seeds are available in local or regional agricultural-departments and shops of the Indian government.
According to it's nature, like other pulses soya bean too absorbs nitrogen at the rate of 45 kilo per acre from the soil.
So there is no need to give nitrogen fertilizers to soya bean.
For the growth of the plant and increase of yield prasphutik fertilizers are good.
(If) fertilizer of powder of bones is given then good crop of soya bean is obtained.
Not much effort is needed for growing the crop of soya bean.
It takes from three to five months of time for the crop of soya bean to ripen.
The crop should be cut before the legumes are fully ripe.
If the legumes are left to dry in the field only, then the peas fall off at the time of cutting and loss has to be borne.
After cutting the plants should be collected in the barns and should be left for drying.
Then with the process of husking and shelling, seeds-husk should be separated.
In a general field of soya bean per acre from 4 to 5 pounds of yield is obtained.
In good fields per acre from 10 upto 12 pounds of yield is obtained.
In some special types of fields per acre upto 1500 pounds yield is obtained.
As much is the yield, it's double husk is obtained.
Soya bean is used in many ways - (1) in the form of green fertilizer, (2) in making flat breads and biscuits, (3) in the work of making milk and (4) as pulses.
Split peas of soya bean are very good for health.
Big scholars of dietetics say that the split peas of soya bean have as much nutrients, as much are in the milk of buffalo.
In countries like China and Japan many types of items of food are prepared from split peas of soya bean.
Moth is also called by different names.
Some people call moth moth and some people also call it mataki.
The original birth-place of moth is said to be the region of Himalaya.
Some people also believe the birth-place of moth Lanka.
Whatever, the spread of moth in foreign countries happened from India only.
These days farming of moth is done in huge proportions in United States of America and China.
All of you know this, that the plant of moth is small and furry.
The height of the stalk is upto about 1 foot.
This stays spread on the ground from 2 inch to 3 inch.
The stalk is branched.
The lower branches are spread on the ground.
The upper branches are upright.
The leaves are of three leaflets, which are divided in three to five parts.
The flowers come on the petiole.
The legumes are from one to two inch long.
The seeds are inside the legumes.
The color of the seeds is light brown or of green color.
Moth is of two types - (1) moth of brown skin and (2) moth of green skin.
The moth of brown skin is also called lobiya.
The sowing of moth is done in the days of monsoon and till October there is warmth along with moisture in the climate.
So moth needs warm weather along with moisture.
People grow the crop of moth with maize-millet.
Crop of moth is very rarely grown alone.
But where some people grow the crop of moth alone , there the shuffling of the crop of moth is done with wheat , barley etc summer crops.
For only growing crop of moth, ploughing by indigenous ploughs for two-three times is enough.
May be in those fields crop of moth is grown separately, in which the summer crops are cut.
After the rain falls, when the soil becomes moist, then ploughing should be done in the fields.
After ploughing, making the soil flat, seeds should be sown.
To grown the crop of moth with mixed crops, per acre one to one and half kilo of seeds are necessary.
But when the crop has to be grown separately, then per acre four kilo seeds should be sown.
Like all other crops of pulses, the plants of moth also keep taking nitrogen from the soil.
So moth does not need nitrogen fertilizers.
Experiments have shown that, if phosphate is used in the fields of moth then the crops grows well.
The crop of moth is sown in the days of monsoon.
Grown and ripens too in the days of monsoon.
So there is no need to irrigate the crop of moth.
But when there is scarcity of water of rain and the crop starts drying, then it becomes necessary to irrigate.
The crop of moth takes a time of 4 months to ripen.
If the crop is used for fodder, then the crop should be cut after the legumes sprout.
For peas the crop should be cut on ripening of the legumes.
Use of moth in the form of pulses is more.
Like split green gram split moth is also light and easy to digest.
Some people make flour of moth, and make flat breads mixing it with flour of wheat.
Many people eat fried peas of moth.
Some people make use of the peas of moth with vegetables also.
Moth cures the ailments of cough and acid.
There are such elements in the peas of moth which keep the stomach well.
Farming of grass peas has been done in India from ancient times.
Grass peas has gone to foreign countries from India only.
Loan limit is decided without keeping in mind the loan payback capacity.
The work of disbursing loan is done throughout the year, not only at the time of sowing and cutting the crop.
Where there is scarcity of farming equipment, there, preparation for annual credit limit distribution goes waste.
The main work of Land Development Banks is to give loan to members on mortgage of land.
(They) provide loan facility for the following activities to farmers keeping the members' land, house, agriculture related equipment mortgage or pawn, like -.
To improve agricultural land and agricultural technique, like leveling the land, making barren and infertile land fertile, digging wells, making ridges, irrigation, creating resources and giving them a solid form.
Making provision for long term loan for buying agricultural machines-equipment.
To make agricultural house, dam, canal, godown, cattle shed.
Land Development Banks are expanding loan activities for development of agriculture assisting businesses like dairies, poultry, doing fruit farming, cow dung gas plant, windmills.
Giving loans to farmers on low rates so that they do not become victims of the exploiting nature of the moneylenders.
To work in the form of a link between long term banking and National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development NABARD and the government.
For the solution of problems of land and its use, to make necessary counseling easy for the members is also their work.
To increase their capital by issuing a debenture.
There is a great variance in the progress of the Land Development Banks in various states of the country.
Special progress has happened in Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra, but progress happened in states like Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa cannot be considered satisfactory.
Unskilled Management - The members and employees of directorate of most banks are untrained and inexperienced.
These banks do not have enough finance.
In almost all banks more than 80% functional capital is obtained from loans.
Adverse effect of land development laws - In some states adverse effect of land development laws is seen on the activities of the Land Development Banks.
In states like Gujarat and Bihar due to the prohibition of land transfer or sale under the tenant act, the working of the Land Development Banks has been hampered.
The process of loan sanctioning adopted by these banks is very complex.
Also long delays happen in unnecessary forms in loan disbursement.
In some states this work gets done in two months or in some states it takes 3-4 months or somewhere upto 9 months.
Due to this the debtor gets very tired and after a time his interest in the bank vanishes.
Three notable children's films were made in 1954 - ' Munna ' , ' Jagruti ' , and ' Boot Polish '.
Among these " Munna " did not receive any particular success but " Jagruti " and " Boot Polish " became successful.
The second successful children's film which came that same year was " Jagruti ".
Many songs of this film of the famous director Satyen Bose have become like national songs.
It was said that with the right education the most spoilt children can also be brought on the correct path.
In 1954 itself another children's film ' Boot Polish ' was screened.
Like ' Jagruti ' this film also was extremely successful.
The message of fighting with the bitter truths of life and making one's own path has been given in this.
It was said that no work is small or big.
Baby Naaz received the honour of best child artist for this film.
This is the most memorable film of David Abraham in the role of John Chacha.
He received the Filmfare award of Best Supporting Actor for this role.
As a consequence of inspiring screenplay, skilled performance and melodious songs this film gained unlimited success.
Almost all the child artists of that time had acted in the film ' Hum Panchi Ek Dal Ke ' screened in 1957.
In 1967 the Satyen Bose directed film ' Masoom ' was a successful children's film.
Screenwriter Ruby Sen received the Filmfare award of Best Screenplay for this film.
That same year the film ' Phool aur Kaliyan ' in the direction of Ram Gabale was produced under the banner of Rajkamal.
Shivram had given music in this film and Ramesh, Hemant, Nitin and Dattaram had played the main roles.
That same year Raj Kapoor released the film ' Ab Dilli Dur Nahi ' as the director.
This film is the story of the journey of a boy in search of justice.
In 1961 Bimal Roy made the film ' Kabuliwala ' in the direction of Hemen Gupta based on the story by Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore.
The unforgettable performance of Balraj Sahni in the title role and the music of Salil Choudhury made this film memorable.
That same year another film of the Children's Film Society ' Savitri ' in the direction of Phani Majumdar was screened.
The film ' Son of India ' made in the next year 1962 - was the last film of Mehboob Khan.
" Nanha munna rahi hu , Desh ka sipahi hu , bolo mere sang Jai Hind " is the most popular song of the film.
' Dosti ' became a superhit and it received five Filmfare awards including Best Film.
In this the friendship and sacrifice of a blind and a lame boy has been shown.
Majrooh Sultanpuri, Laxmikant Pyarelal and Mohammad Rafi - all three received a Filmfare award for the song - Chahunga main tujhe sanjh savere.
Three years after ' Dosti ' in 1968 the film ' Do Kaliyan ' was screened.
Neetu Singh had played a dual role as a child artist in this.
One film, which cannot be called a children's film but became quite popular among children.
That was - ' Hathi mere Sathi ' released in 1971.
A very beautiful portrayal of the faithfulness of animals and the humane relationships between man and animal was done in this film.
The harmonious relationships between man and nature has been shown in this.
In 1985 Hindi Sangeetalya made the film ' Aazadi ki Or ' in the direction of P. S. Prakash.
Through the medium of this interesting story the cruelty of man and the exploitation of animals by him for his interest has been shown in this.
In 1992 Gopi Desai directed the film ' Mujhse Dosti Karoge ' for National Center of Films for Children and Young People.
In this the brave exploits of the world of dreams of a child has been portrayed.
In 1998 Children's Film Society produced the film ' Goal ' made in the direction of Gulbahar Singh.
It was shown in this film how the instructor of a small city improves the talent of a child of a deprived area without any discrimination.
The film ' Chota Chetan ' released this same year was the first 3D film of India.
In 2001 another film of Children's Film Society ' Baaja ' was released, whose direction was done by A. K. Bir.
The film portrays the development of the mental growth of a boy.
In 2002 Vishal Bharadwaj's film ' Makdi ' was released.
In the film Shabana Azmi, Shweta Prasad and Makarand Deshpande were in the main roles.
The story of a girl and an alleged witch living in the mansion has been shown in this.
In 2004 under the banner of Children's Film Society the Sankalp Meshram directed film ' Chutkan ki Mahabharat ' was released.
The story of such a boy has been shown in this film , whose dreams suddenly start becoming reality.
In 2005 under the production of UTV Motion Pictures the film ' Blue Umbrella ' directed by Vishal Bharadwaj came on the cinema screens.
The story presenting selfless and sensitive values in this film has been presented in a very poetic manner.
Pankaj Kapoor played the lead role in this film.
The children's film ' Taare Zameen Par ' released in 2007 was the first film of Amir Khan as director.
Darsheel Safary in the role of a neglected slow minded child was awarded with the critics award for natural acting.
I was very young , Papa had brought a new T.V. at our house.
Watching every programme had become part of habit.
In this regard I began watching regional films with English subtitles on Sundays.
I could not understand the dialogues of the film and neither could I understand the English subtitles much.
The peace and story of that film touched the heart.
After that watching regional movies every Sunday became part of habit.
At the same time I realized the richness of regional films.
This had the advantage that I had a good opportunity to understand the country's culture , way of life.
Regional cinema has an active role in Indian cinema.
Each year 1000 films are produced in regional languages.
In this the films of the south have an important role.
Telugu film industry is at second place in India and Tamil at third place.
Often films of Bollywood are made on being inspired by regional films.
' Balika Vadhu ' was first made in Bangla and Moushumi Chatterjee was there in it , which later was made in Hindi.
' Sadma ' also was initially made in Tamil.
The history of regional cinema is older than Bollywood.
In 1909 Raghupathi Venkataratnam Naidu was a founder and actor in Indian films.
His films were silent.
So they could not be limited to any language.
He would go places himself for the ' promotion ' of films.
